--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 1 OF 8 ---

                                               4. Sheets-Sheet .
         N. A. OTTO.
GAS-M0T0R, EN GINES.
                                     Pat 8 in te d Aug:. 14, 1877




PEERS. PHOTO-LITHoGRAPHER, washington, D. c.


--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 2 OF 8 ---

                   N. A. OTTO. 4. Sheets-Sheet 2. .      .
               GAS-MOTOR EN GINES.
No. 194,047.                   Fatente d Aug. 14, 1877




                         Ex
                       S ???   X




                       ???????


--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 3 OF 8 ---

                                  4. Sheets-Sheet 3.
                   N. A. OTTO.
               GAS-MOTOR, EN GINES.
No. 194,047.                 Paten ted Aug. 14, 1877.


--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 4 OF 8 ---

                                       4 Sheets-Sheet 4.
                        N. A. OTTO.
                    GAS-MOTOR, EN GINES.
    No. 194, 047.         -       Patente d Aug. 14, 1877.

$     ???




                                                     I
                                                         R


--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 5 OF 8 ---

  UNITED STATES PATENT OFFICE.
               NIC O L A U S A. OTTO, OF DEUTZ, GERMANY.
                       IMPROVEMENT IN GAS MOTOR ENGINES.

     Specification forming part of Letters Patent No. 194,042, dated August 14, 1877; application filed
                                               July 13, 1876.

 To all whom it may concern:                      ton to be at the end of its instroke, its bottom
   Be it known that I, NICOLAUS AUGUST surface being represented by the dotted line
OTTO, of the Gas-Motoren Fabrik - Deutz, at a, while the slide D is in such a position that
 Deutz, in the German Empire, lave invented its passage D establishes a communication
an Improved Gas-Motor Engine; and do here between the outer air through the aperture
by declare that the following description, D' and the port C, then, on the piston com
taken in connection with the accompanying mencing its outstroke, it will draw in atmos
sheets of drawings, hereinafter referred to, pheric air until it arrives at the point indi
forms a full and exact specification of the cated by the dotted line b, when the slide will
same, wherein I have set forth the nature and have been moved so as to cut off the air-sup
principles of my said inprovement, by which ply and establish a communication between
my invention may be distinguished from oth the passage Gin the slide-cover, for an inti
ers of a similar class, together with such parts mate mixture of coal-gas or petroleum vapor
as I claim and desire to secure by Letters Pat and air, (in such proportions that the mixture
ent-that is to say:                               will burn of itself, but, owing to the presence of
   In gas-motor engines as at present con the first admitted air, will not explode,) and the
structed, an explosive mixture of combustible port Cthrough the passage D. On the con
gas and air is introduced into the engine-cyl tinued motion of the piston, combustible gase
inder, where it is ignited, resulting in a sudden ous mixture will consequently be drawn in
development of heat and expansion of the until the piston has arrived at a point, c, when
gases, a great portion of the useful effect be the slide will have moved into the position
ing lost by absorption of heat, unless special. slown, cutting off the gas-supply, and about
provisions are made for allowing the gases to to establish a communication between the
expand very rapidly.                            small gas-flame H and the charge in the cyl
   According to my present invention an in inder, for the purpose of igniting the latter.
timate mixture of combustible gas or vapor The combustible gaseous mixture, in enter
and air is introduced into the cylinder, to ing the cylinder behind the charge of air pre
gether with a separate charge of air or other viously admitted, will, to a certain extent, Inix
gas, that may or may not support combustion, with the latter, the particles of the combusti
in such a manner and in such proportions that ble umixture being close together in and near
the particles of the combustible gaseous mix the port C, and becoming more and more dis
ture are more or less dispersed in an isolated persed in the air as they approach the piston,
condition in the air or other gas, so that on as indicated by the dots in the drawing, which
ignition, instead of an explosion ensuing, the represent the combustible particles. Thus, ou
flame will be communicated gradually from the ignition of the charge in the port C, the
one combustible particle to another, thereby gaseous mixture will at first burn with com
effecting a gradual development of heat and a parative rapidity, the flame spreading from
corresponding gradual expansion of the gases, particle to particle; but as the ignition extends
which will enable the motive power so pro toward the front end of the charge, it will pro
duced to be utilized in the most effective man ceed more and more slowly, owing to the colm
  8T.                                           bustible particles being farther and farther
   In order more clearly to describe my inven apart.
tion, I will refer to the accompanying draw The burning particles impart their heat to
ings, in which Figure 1 shows a longitudinal the surrounding air, producing a gradually
section of an engine-cylinder, A having a pis increasing pressure in the cylinder, which
ton, B, connected to a fly-wheel shaft, and a causes the piston to complete its outstroke.
port or passage, C, for the admission of coin Motion being thus imparted to the fly-wheel.
bustible gaseous mixture and air, controlled by the piston-rod, its momentum causes the
by the slide D, and having also a passage, E, piston to perform its return stroke, whereby
for the emission of the products of combus the products of combustion are expelled
tion, closed by a valve, F. Assuming the pis through the valve F, and, the fly-wheel also


--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 6 OF 8 ---

    2                                              94.047

    causing the piston to commence its next out tioned that the crank Kinakes one revolution,
    stroke, a fresh charge of air and combustible and, consequently, the slide one to-and-fro
    mixture is drawn in, as before described.       motion, while the piston makes two double
       In order to vary the power of the engine, strokes.                                         -
    the charge of combustible mixture(represented The mode of operating with this engine is
    by the space a to b) may be varied, as may as follows: Assuming the piston to be at the
    also the proportions of air and coal-gas or va end of its instroke (represented by the dotted
    por of which it is composed, and such varia linea, Fig. 3,) and about to be moved through
    tion may be controlled by connecting the valve its outstroke by the momentum of the fly
    gear with any suitable construction of gov wheel M, then, the slide D (the construction
    ernor, as will be presently described.          of which will be presently explained) being in
       From the foregoing general description it position to admit atmospheric air through the
    will be seen that as in the improved mode of passage D and port C, air will be drawn into
    operating there is no sudden explosion of the the   cylinder until the piston has reached the
    gaseous charge, but a gradual development point represented by the dotted line b, when,
|   of heat and expansion of the gases, there will the slide having established a communica
    be no such losses of effect as result in gas-en tion with the combustible-gas supply and the
    gines of present construction through shocks cylinder, combustible gas intimately mixed
    produced by the sudden development of motive with air will be drawn in until the piston has
    power, and by the absorption of leat conse arrived at the end of its outstroke, the posi
    quent upon the inability of the gases to ex tion shown at Fig. 3. As before explained
    pand with sufficient rapidity.                  with reference to Fig. 1, the combustible gas
       The above - described berieficial effect of eous mixture, in entering, will mix to a certain
    the improved mode of working will be further extent with the air previously introduced, the
    increased by the fact that the charge of air particles of gaseous mixture being close to
    interposed between the combustible mixture gether at the back end of t?ie cylinder, and
    and the piston will operate as a cushion or buf more and more separated from each other to:
    fer in still further reducing the suddenness of ward the front end. The slide having moved
    the expansive force generated as it transmits so as to close the inlet. port C, the piston' is
    it to the piston.                               caused, by the momentum of the fly-wheel, to
       Engines operating according to my inven perform its instroke, whereby the charge of
    tion may either be single-acting-the return gaseous      mixture and air that filled the cylin
                                                    deratatmospheric   pressure willbe compressed
    stroke being effected by the momentum of the
    fly-wheel-orthey may be double-acting, a gas into the space from the line a to the back end
    eous charge being introduced at each end of of the cylinder, the particles of gaseous mix
    the eylinder. They may also operate with the ture remaining in much the same unequally
    gases either at atinospheric pressure or com distributed condition in the air as they did be
    pressed to any desired degree. In the latter fore compression. The slide now establishes
    case the engine may be arranged in a similar a communication between the gas-flame H and
    manner to that above described, the gases be the interior of the cylinder, so as to ignite the
    ing compressed by any suitable kulown means charge, resulting in a gradual development of
                                                       heat and expansion of the gases, as before ex
    before being introduced into the engine; but, plained,
    by preference, I dispense with any such addi.                 whereby the piston will be caused to
    tional compressing mechanism by arranging perform its outstroke, imparting fresh mo
    the engine to operate in the mauner I will now mentum to the fly-wheel. This momentum
    proceed to describe with reference to Figs. 2 will again cause the piston to perform its iu:
    to 13 of the drawings, of which                    stroke, whereby the products of combustion
       Fig.2 shows a side elevation; Fig. 3, a sec will be expelled through the valve F, which
    tional plan; Fig. 4, a back-end view, and Figs. has been opened by the lever N, acted on
    5 to 13 details of the valve-gear.                 by a cam, O, on the shaft K. As the pis
       The engine is here represented as being ton only moves back to the line a, it will be
    single-acting, the cylinder A being open to the seen that a certain portion of the products of
    atmosphere at its front end. At its closed combustion will remain in the cylinder, and
    back end it has a space, A', beyond the stroke will consequently mix to a certain extent with
    of the piston B, which space i, by preference, the air drawn in behind them at the next out
    made conical at the end, as shown, tapering stroke; but as the mixture of combustible gas
    to the iulet-port C for coulbustible gas and and air afterward introduced will buru inde
    air, and also communicating by the passage pendently of the air or other gas surrounding
    E with the escape-valve F, Fig. 3, for the pro its particles, it will be seen that the presence
    ducts of combustion.                                of such products of combustion in the charge
       The piston B is connected by the rod B to will be of no consequence.
    the crank-shaft II, on which is a bevel-pinion, I', As before stated, the power of the engine
    in gear with a bevel-wheel, K, on a shaft, K. may be regulated by regulating the quantity
    On the other end of this shaft is a crank, K, of combustible         gas introduced at each charge.
    connected by a link, D', to the slide D, gov This        is effected by the gas-slide P, controlled by
    erning the admission of gas and air to the the governor Q, operating oil the sliding cam
    cylinder. The gearing I K is so propor R as follows: Fig. 5 shows an enlarged front


--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 7 OF 8 ---

                                           194,047.                                            3.

view of the gas-slide; Figs, 6 and 7, vertical the air-passage D is just about to communi
sections, and Fig. 8 a plan, of the same. In : cate with the port C, and, secondly, its posi
the casing of the slide are formed two pas tion at point 2, the gas and air supply having
sages, Gº-andº-Gº, the former communicating just been cut off. It will be seen that in the
with a pipe, G, leading to the gas-passage G. first position the gas-passage G is also about
in the slide D, and the other with the gas to open; but the before-described action of
supply pipe G. These passages have small the gas-slide P will prevent the admission of
side openings, as shown, which, when the slide combustible gas until the requisite charge of
is in the position shown in Fig. 7, both com air is introduced. Fig. 11 shows, first, the
municate with the cavity of the slide P, so position of the slide at the point 3 when the
that gas can pass from Ginto G, and thence flatne of the gas jet H is about to be commu
into the passage. G of the slide D. When the nicated to the gaseous charge by a small quan
slide is moved into the position shown in Fig. tity of inflamed gas in the passage D', and,
6, this communication, and consequently the secondly, its position at the point 4 when the
gas-supply, is cut off. The slide P rests with escape-valve F is about to be opened.
a small roller, P., upon a cam, R, which re For effecting the ignition of the clharge, a
volves with, but can slide somewhat upon, Small quantity of combustible gas is made to
the shaft K, the raising of the slide being ef. pass clown a pipe, S, into a recess, S', in the:
fected by the cam, while its downward motion end of the cylinder, whence it issues: through
is effected by the spring P. According as a small channel, D, in the slide into the pas
the cam is shifted relatively to the roller Pl sage D. Ehere it is ignited by the jet H, and
by the action of the governor Q and lever Q, the flame is, by the motion of the slide, con
(which has a fork taking into a collar on the veyed to the port C, the slide-cover L being
cam, as shown,) the slide is made to establish made to close the outer opening of D8 before
the communication between G and G* for a its inner opening communicates with C, as
longer or a shorter period, thus allowing a shown at Fig. 11.                 • .
greater or less quantity of the combustible The gas-passage G communicates with the
gas for-one charge to pass into the cylinder air-passage D through a number of small
A independently of the action of the slide D. openings, as shown at Fig. 13, so that the gas,
The gas-slide P is held against the face of the in issuing in small divided jets into D', be
casing by a spring, P, pressing against a comes intimately mixed with the air therein
cover, P, on the back of the slide.               in the requisite proportions for producing the
   The construction and mode of operating of Combustible mixture before described.
the engine-slide D will be understood on ref. The opening of the escape-valve F at the
erence to Figs, 10 to 13, of which Figs, 10 and commencement of the second instroke of the
11 represent two longitudinal sections of the piston (point 4 at Fig. 9) is effected by the
slide and casing on line Z, Z, Fig. 12, with the bell-crank lever F, connected at one end to
slide in two different positions, and Figs. 12 the stem of the valve, and having at the other
and 13 show transverse sections, respectively end a roller, F, which is acted upon by the
on lines XX and Y Y, Fig. 10.                     cam F on the shaft K. E' is the pipe for con
   From the previous description of the action ducting away the products of combustion.
of the engine, it will be seen that there are The governor Q is driven by bevel-gearing
four strokes of the piston required for one from the shaft K, its arms being made to
complete operation-namely, an outstroke for move a sliding collar, Q, up or down, thus
drawing in the charge of combustible mixture imparting motion through the lever Q to the
and air, an instroke for compressing the gases, cam R, as before described.
a second outstroke when the piston is pro The cylinder A is, by preference, provided
pelled on the ignition of the gases, and a sec with a jacket, as shown.
ond instroke for expelling the products of As beforestated, theengine may bearranged
combustion. The slide D consequently has to double-acting byproviding the requisite valve.
perform one to-and-fro motion while the pis gear for each end of the cylinder. It may
ton is performing the above-mentioned four op also be arranged in a vertical or inclined posi
erations, for which purpose, as before stated, tion, instead of horizontal; and if single-acting,
the slide-crank K makes one revolution while or if great regularity of motion be required,
the engine-shaft makes two. The circle at two or more engines may be connected to one
Fig. 9 represents a diagram of the path of the and the same crank-shaft.
crank K, in which the part from 1 to 2 rep Having thus described the nature of my in
resents the motion of the slide during the vention, and in what manner the same is to
time of drawing in the gaseous charge, the be performed, I wish it to be understood that
part from 2 to 3 the motion during the com I do not claim generally the separate introduc
pression of the charge, 3 to 4 the motion dur tion of combustible gas and air into the cylin
ing the working stroke, and 4 to 1 the motion der of a gas-engine, as I am aware that is to
during the expulsion of the products of com a certain extent described in the English
bustion. Figs. 10 and li each show two po Patents No. 1,655 of 1857, and 335 of 1860;
sitions of the slide, Fig. 10 showing, first, its but,
position at the point 1 of the crank-path when     I claim


--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 8 OF 8 ---

4                                           194,047

    1. A gas-motor engine wherein an inti pels the products of combustion, substantially
 ::te mixture of combustible gas or vapor and
air is introduced into the cylinder, separate as herein described with reference to Figs. 2
                                              to 13 of the drawings.
 from a charge of air or other incombustible 4. In gas-motor engines wherein charges of
 gas, in such manner and in such proportions combustible gas and air are introduced sep
 that the particles of combustible mixture will arately into the cylinder, regulating the power
 be close together at the point of ignition, but of the engine by controlling the gas-supply
 will be more and more dispersed in the charge by means of a valve operated by a governor,
 of air forward of that point, whereby the de substantially as herein described.
 velopment of heat and the expansion or in 5. In gas-motor engines, the shaft K, driven
crease of pressure produced by the combus from        the engine-shaft, with crank K”, imparting
tion are rendered gradual, substantially as motion       to the slide D, cam R, for regulating
 herein described.
   2. A gas-motor engine wherein an intimate escape-valve F, and
                                                 the gas-supply,       cam F, for opening the
                                                                   substantially as herein de
mixture of combustible gas or vapor and air scribed.
is introduced into the cylinder separate from 6. In gas-motor engines, the combination of
and subsequent to a charge of air, such intro the cylinder A piston B, engine-shaft I, coun
duction being effected through an aperture or ter-shaft    K, crank K”, slide D, gas-slide P, cam
apertures in the end surface of the cylinder, R, escape-valve     F, lever F, and cam F, all
in order to cause the charge of air to move arranged and operating substantially as and
forward in the cylinder as the combustible for the purposes herein described.
mixture is introduced, substantially as and In testimony whereof I have signed my
for the purposes set forth.                      name to this specification in the presence of
   3. A gas-motor engine wherein, by one out two subscribing witnesses this 1st day of June,
stroke of the piston, separate charges of com 1876.
bustible gaseous mixture and of air are drawn
into the cylinder, which charges are compressed Witnesses:NICOLAUS   -
                                                                           AUGUST OTTO.
by the instroke and then ignited, so as to pro         FRIEDRICH ALBERT SPIECKER,
pel the piston, which, by its return stroke, ex        GUSTAV KLEINJING.               .. . . . . .
