--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 1 OF 3 ---

UNITED STATES PATENT OFFICE.
THOMAS DAVENPORT

IMPROVEMENT IN PROPELLING MACHINERY BY MAGNETISM AND ELECTRO-MAGNETISM
Specification of Letters Patent No. US 132
Grant Date: 1837-02-25

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 2 OF 3 ---

UNITED STATES PATENT OFFICE.
THOMAS DAVENPORT, OF BRANDON, VERMONT.

IMPROVEMENT IN PROPELLING MACHINERY BY MAGNETISM AND ELECTRO-MAGNETISM.

Specification forming part of Letters Patent No. 132, dated February 25, 1837.

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, THOMAS DAVENPORT, of Brandon, in the County of Rutland and State of Vermont, have invented a new and useful Machine for Applying Magnetic and Electro-Magnetic Power to the Propelling of Machinery, of which the following is a specification:

The principle of my invention consists in producing continuous rotary motion by the mutual attraction and repulsion of electromagnets and permanent magnets or other electromagnets, changing the magnetic poles of the revolving magnets by means of a commutator as they pass the stationary poles.

The construction of the apparatus is as follows:
1. A stationary horizontal frame of wood or brass supporting two semi-circular stationary magnets (or electromagnets) with their north and south poles presented towards a central vertical shaft.

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 3 OF 3 ---

2. A vertical central shaft or spindle carrying four horizontal cross-arms formed of soft iron, wound with insulated copper wire to constitute revolving electromagnets.

3. A commutator consisting of split copper plates or segments mounted upon the vertical shaft and insulated from each other. Copper conducting wires from the galvanic battery terminate in spring brushes that press against these segments.

4. The wires from the revolving electromagnets are connected to the segments of the commutator in such manner that as the poles of the revolving magnets approach the opposite poles of the stationary magnets, they are attracted; but as they pass them, the current is reversed by the segments moving under the brushes, changing the poles of the revolving electromagnets so that they are immediately repelled from the poles they have just passed and attracted toward the next succeeding stationary poles.

By this continuous alternation of attraction and repulsion, a rapid and powerful rotary motion is imparted to the vertical shaft, which may be connected by gears or pulleys to drive lathes, printing presses, or other machinery.

I claim as my invention:

1. The application of magnetic and electro-magnetic power to the production of continuous rotary motion for propelling machinery.

2. The combination of revolving electromagnets with stationary magnets, having their polarity reversed twice in each revolution by a commutator, substantially as described.
