--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 1 OF 4 ---

              GEORGE WESTINGHOUSE, Jr.
Improvement in Steam Power Air Brakes and Signals,
No. 124,404.                                                              Patented March 5, 1872,




                                                                                                        N. Y




                                                                            a                       y




                                                                            Ian A
                                                                                 HH      S               s




Yifu is es:
 wo f day         "gy/A                                           SEP Snareu?ot,
6 (6.de/dar                             so. 6,                              - garry to this lauy.
                                                                          l, 6a and cir (774.hr,
                                                                                hts .#s.      w              . i
                   . At fioro-lithociafic ca A. Y.7 assoamers frocass./


--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 2 OF 4 ---

                           -                     24.404


UNITED STATES PATENT OFFICE.
       GEORGE WESTINGHOUSE, JR, OF PITTSBURG, PENNSYLVANIA.
        MPROVEMENT IN STEAM-POWER AIR-BRAKES AND SIGNALS.
              Specification fórning part of Letters Patent No. 124,404, dated March 5, 1872.

              SPECIFICATION.                    charging the reservoir and the other for oper
                                                ating the brakes; fourth, when a car becomes
To all chon, it may concern:                    disconnected from the train by accident Or
   Be it known that I, GEORGE WESTING otherwise,            a port or ports will thereby be
HOUSE, Jr., of Pittsburg, in the county of opened in a communicating-pipe Or pipes, by
Allegheny and State of Pennsylvania, have which the air from such auxiliary reservoir
invented a new and useful Improvement in will be admitted freely to the brake-cylinder,
Steam-Power Air-Brakes and Signal; and I so as automatically to apply the brakes; and
do hereby declare the following to be a full, fifth, the conductor and engineer Inay commu
clear, and exact description thereof, reference nicate signals or orders to each other by the
being had to the accompanying drawing mak use of the brake-pipes and the compressed air,
ing a part of this specification, in which         Some of the functions above specified are
   Figure 1 is an inverted view of a car-body performed by the apparatus described in the
with my improved apparatus attached there separate application above mentioned; and
to. Fig. 2 shows the arrangement of the air hence in such cases I limit myself in this ap
brake pipes with reference to the main reser plication to the means set forth or their sub
voir. Fig. 3, in connection with Fig. 2, illus stantial equivalents.
trates the use of the apparatus for signaling. To enable others skilled in the art to make
 Fig. 4 is an enlarged view of the gauge-index, and use my improvement, I will proceed to
and Figs. 5 and 6 are enlarged and detached describe its construction and mode of opera
views of the tripping apparatus of Fig. 1.       tion.
   Like letters of reference indicate like parts The brake-pipes B B extend along under
in each.                                         the body of each car. A from end to end, and
   In the steam-power air-brake apparatus here the pipes of one car are coupled to those of
tofore in use a single line of pipe conveys the the next by the hose and coupling connec
compressed air from the main reservoir on the tions described in patent granted to me Au
locomotive to each brake-cylinder. If this August 8, 1870, and thereby connection is made
pipe becomes accidentally broken at any point with the main reservoir A. The brake-cylin
it is, of course, useless for braking purposes der C is of the usual construction. An air-rea
from   that point to the rear end of the train. ceiver, D, is attached to the bottom of the
 For this and other reasons I have devised an car A. This receiver should ordinarily be
apparatus consisting in part of a double line somewhat larger than the brake-cylinder C,
of brake-pipes, which may be co-operative or and strong enough to Sustain a pressure of,
independently operative in braking at the say, one hundred pounds per square inch, more
pleasure of the engineer, and which as a sep or less. It may be used as a reservoir auxil
arate device I have included in a separate ap iary to the main reservoir A, or as an inde
plication.                                      pendent reservoir, one on each car, for stor
   The improvement herein described relates ing up the air necessary to apply the brakes,
to the same class of apparatus; and consists In this latter use I combine with it any known
in the features of construction and combina device for compressing air, such as an air
tion, substantially as hereinafter claimed, by pump, fan-blower, stealm-injector, &c.; and if
which, first, an air-reservoir, auxiliary to or an air-pump it may be Worked by an eccen
independent of the main reservoir, is combined tric on one of the car-axles A* or in other
on each car with the brake-cylinder; second, known Way. A pipe Or air-passage then eX
by means of a cock or cocks, with suitable tends directly or indirectly from it to the brake
ports, such additional reservoir, when used as cylinder C, with a stop-cock device therein,
an auxiliary reservoir, is charged with com by which the compressed air is admitted at
pressed air from one brake-pipe, and the brake pleasure from such reservoir D to the brake.
cylinder from the other, such pipes in such cylinder, so as to apply the brakes in the usual
use being interchangeable or not, at pleasure; way. By the means set forth reservoir ID is
third, and by means of a single cock with suit. recharged from time to time, as may be neces:
able ports either brake-pipe may be used for sary, in order to keep a store or supply of


--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 3 OF 4 ---

 2                                            124,404
 compressed air always on hand and ready for by a catch, In, engages, a counter-catch, O. A.
 use. But the chief use. Willic:ll I contemplate spring, In', or its equivalent, a Weight, is ar
 for this reservoir D is as an auxiliary to the anged in connection with the crank-arm in,
  main reservoir A. One brake-pipe, B, I use that when the catch is released the ariu
  in the ordillary way for conveying compressed so   will, by a forward throw, shift the position of   y


  air from the main reservoir All to the brake the cock e, as above indicated. To effect this
  cylinder C, and the other pipe, B, I alway's release I introduce under the arm in a tripping
  keep in open cominunication with the mail head or lever, i, preferably of circular form, so
  reservoir A, so that it is alway's filled with that it will bear against the al'm in whichever
  compressed air; but it is immaterial in the way it is moved, and from at or allout its cen
  construction shown which pipe is used for tral point a tripping-stem, i, extends (lown
  either purpose. A cross-pipe, B' 3", connects ward such distal ice that when the cal' is ol)
  the pipes BB, and from their point of junc the track, it will clear the ground, but when
  tion the pipes l l branch off, one to the brake tle car leaves the track it will strike the
 cylindel C and the other to the auxiliary res ground, the track, or ties, and, by a Veltical,
  ervoir D. At the junction of these pipes in a forward, or back or side motion, lift the arm
  suitable case, d, I arrange a cock. d. having an and disengage the catch with the result
 two non-communicating ports, at (t, such that already stated. But to slift the position of
 in one adjustment they will open communica the cock when the car-coullings break, while
 tion from B° to b, and from B to b; and in the car is still on the track, l l'tin a cord or
 the other adjustment from B to l and from B' chain, f, or equivalent device from the outter
 to l'. With the adjustinent shown the pipe end of the handle e forward and attach it to
  B is to be used as a 1'eservoir-pipe for contaill the hose-coupling gy of that ol' the next car at
 ing compressed air and conveying the same to such point forward of the “slack” that when
 the auxiliary reservoir ID, and the other pipe the car-couplings break and the slack-lose is
 B is the ordinary operating-pipe for operating straightened out the handle 0 will, by the
 the brakes in the usual way.                       cord ), be drawn over far enough to shift the
    It will be seen that by turning the cock di position of the cock e, as already explained.
 one quarter way around the relation of the In this way the brakes are automatically ap
 pipes IB B to the auxiliary reservoir D and plied, in case of accident, to any part of the
 the brake-cylinder C will be reversed, but that train. The same wire or chain ), or another,
 the operation otherwise Will remain the same. may extend in like mannel from the coupling
 I also so construct my apparatus that when a y to the stem i, or to any other device which
 cal leaves the track or becomes uncoupled from will disengage the catch no with like result
 the train the brakes will be automatically ap to that already stated. A slot, a, is inade in
 plied by means of the compressed air which is tle forward or outer end of the arm m, in
 stored up in the reservoir-pipe audl the auxil which the wrist of the handle eplays, in order
 iary reservoir,                                    that the cock may be shifted by the Wirely in
    For this purpose I connect the pipes B Bl dependently of the arm m. But other devices
 with each other near the ends of the car by for automatically shifting the cock e may be
 cross-pipes E. E. In two diagonally-opposite employed; my present invention not being
 corners of the parallelogram thus formed I limited to those described. To the mail) res
 make cases e for the three-way cocks e, though ervoir Al is attached any suitable form of
 one such cock and case will suffice to perform pressure-gauge, as shown at f alld to each
the function ill view. When the cars are run brake-pipe B B I attach a pressure-gauge of
 ning these cocks are both in the position shown like suitable form (1 g, and arrange in con
 at the upper light corner of Fig. 1, so as to venient proximity to each an alarm - whistle,
 leave a free communication through the pipes h li. These gauges g g and whistles l l are
 B B. Each cock e is provided with a handle for use in signaling. Each Olle has a grad
or arm, which (by means hereinafter described) uated index (illustrated in Fig. 4) so con
is, when a coupling breaks or a car leaves the structed, with reference to the pressure of air
track, shifted so as to throw the cock to the in the pipes, that a certain amount or degree
 position shown at the lower left-hand corner of pressure-say one-lalf pound per square
of Fig. 1, by which through communication is incl-shall send the index fingers to the grad
closed and the compressed air passes from the uation 2; a pressure a little greater, to 3; and
reservoir-pipe B and auxiliary reservoir D so on. By a system agreed on, each gradual
around through the operating-pipe B and pipes tion indicates a separate order or message, as
B° b to the brake-cylinder C, and applies the “flag station,” “stop for orders,” “danger
brakes.                                             run slow,” “danger-stop,” &c.; the highest
   To give the cocks e this throw I have shown or last graduation, preferably, indicating
two devices, which are illustrated in Figs. 1, “stop.” The gauge is so constructed that
5, and 6. In Fig. 6, el represents the cock greater degrees of air pressure will not effect
case; e, the stem of the cock e; and e", the it. In each car a like gauge is arranged, as
shifting-handle, which, in this figure, is in shown at f°, Fig. 3, and a pipe connection, 1.
the position it occupies when through com n, extends from it to the brake-pipes B B.
munication is open. From a wrist on this This gauge is arranged at any suitable point
handle ea crank-arm, n, extends back to, and, in the car, and its pipe connections are fitted


--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 4 OF 4 ---

                                           124,404                                             3

                                                  1. An air-reservoir arranged on each sepa
with a cock, n, which is accessible to the con rate
ductor, and of which he carries the key. These       car in combination with an air-brake
pipe connections 7 m and cock n' are such that, cylinder, D, and main reservoir A on or near
on the cock n' being opened, the compressed the locomotive, substantially as and for the
air Will be admitted from the reservoir-pipe uses set forth.
(say B') both to the gauge of and to the other 2. The combination of the pipes B B B° B°
or operating-pipe B, along which it will pass b b with a suitable arrangement of ports for
to the gallged in the engineer's cab. The con admitting air to the auxiliary reservoir ID and
ductor opens the cock n' till the pressure of brake-cylinder C, substantially as and for the
air has moved the index fingers to the grad uses set forth.
ulation which indicates the order he wishes to     3. The cock d having ports a ca, and ar.
give the engineer, and then closes it. The ranged relatively to the air-reservoir D, brake
index finger on the engineer's gauge will, in cylinder C, and pipes B B, substantially as
like manner, be carried to the same gradua described.
tion, and the alarm of the whistle will call his 4. A cock, e, arranged in an air-brake pipe,
attention to it. By reversing the operation With a suitable arrangement of ports inside
the engineer may communicate messages to and an autoumatically-operating connection
the conductor.                                   outside, whereby, in case of accident, a free
   I do not deem it necessary to describe more communication will be opened from an aux
minutely the ports and passages leading from iliary reservoir, C, to a brake-cylinder, D, and
the pipes 1 2 to the gauge (f, as a suitable external communication be closed, substan
arrangement of such devices, on the function tially as set forth.
being known, can be readily made by those 5. Iih combination with a pair of air-brake
skilled in the art. Where one of the brake pipes, BB, a signaling apparatus consisting
pipes is always used as a reservoir-pipe, and essentially of an alarm or index guage, or both,
the other as an operating-pipe, only one of. on or near the engineer's cab, a pipe connec
the gauges g g will be required, and, of course, tion on or in one or more of the cars, from one
it should be arranged on the operating-pipe. pipe, B, to the other, B, and like means in
   It will be seen that the conductor, by fully connection therewith for regulating or fixing
                                                 the alarm to be given, substantially as set
opening the cock, in case of extreme danger, forth.
Will be enabled to apply the brakes himself, In testimony whereof I, the said GEORGE
as well as notify the engineer, since the air
will flow over by the pipes n n from the res WESTINGHOUSE, Jr., have hereunto set my
ervoir-pipe B to the operating-pipe B, and hand.
thence to the brake-cylinders. Also, that if it               GEO. WESTINGHOUSE, JR.
be desired to communicate but a single order, Witnesses:
the gauges g g g may be dispensed with, and
the Order be communicated by a whistle blast,           JOHN   H. JoHNSON,
                                                        G. H. CHRISTY.
   What I claim as my invention, and desire
to secure by Letters Patent, is
