--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 1 OF 3 ---

UNITED STATES PATENT OFFICE.
THOMAS ALVA EDISON

IMPROVEMENT IN PHONOGRAPHS OR SPEAKING MACHINES
Specification of Letters Patent No. US 200,521
Grant Date: 1878-02-19

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 2 OF 3 ---

UNITED STATES PATENT OFFICE.
THOMAS A. EDISON, OF MENLO PARK, NEW JERSEY.

IMPROVEMENT IN PHONOGRAPHS OR SPEAKING MACHINES.

Specification forming part of Letters Patent No. 200,521, dated February 19, 1878; application filed December 24, 1877.

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, THOMAS A. EDISON, of Menlo Park, in the county of Middlesex and State of New Jersey, have invented an Improvement in Phonographs or Speaking Machines, of which the following is a specification:

The object of this invention is to record in permanent characters the human voice and other sounds, from which characters such sounds may be reproduced and rendered audible again at a future time.

The invention consists in arranging a plate, diaphragm, or other flexible body capable of being vibrated by the human voice or other sounds, in conjunction with a material capable of registering the movements of such vibrating body by embossing or indenting or altering such material, in such a manner that such register-marks will be sufficient to cause a second vibrating plate or body to be set in motion by them, and thus reproduce the motions of the first vibrating body.

The invention further consists in the various combinations of mechanism to carry out my invention.

I have discovered, after a long series of experiments, that a diaphragm or other body capable of being set in motion by the human voice does not give, except in rare instances, superimposed vibrations, as has heretofore been supposed, but that each vibration is separate and distinct, and therefore it becomes possible to record and reproduce the sounds of the human voice.

In the drawings, Figure 1 is a vertical section, illustrating my invention, and Fig. 2 is a plan of the same. Fig. 3 shows a modification.

A is a cylinder having a helical indenting groove cut from end to end—say, ten grooves to the inch. Upon this is placed the material to be indented, preferably metallic foil. This drum or cylinder is secured to a shaft, X, having at one end a thread cut with ten threads to the inch, the bearing P also having a thread cut in it.

L is a tube, provided with a longitudinal slot, and it is rotated by the clock-work at M, or other source of power. The shaft X passes into the tube L, and it is rotated by a pin, 2, secured to the shaft, and passing through the slot on the tube L, the object of the long slot being to allow the shaft X to pass endwise through the center or support P by the action of the screw on X. At the same time that the cylinder is rotated it passes toward the support O.

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 3 OF 3 ---

B is the speaking-tube or mouth-piece, which may be of any desired character, so long as proper slots or holes are provided to re-enforce the hissing consonants. Devices to effect this object are shown in my application, No. 143, filed August 28, 1877. Hence they are not shown or further described herein.

Upon the end of the tube or mouth-piece is a diaphragm, having an indenting-point of hard material secured to its center, and so arranged in relation to the cylinder A that the point will be exactly opposite the groove in the cylinder at any position the cylinder may occupy in its forward rotary movement. The speaking-tube is arranged upon a standard, which, in practice, I provide with devices for causing the tube to approach and recede from the cylinder.

The operation of recording is as follows: The cylinder is, by the action of the screw in X, placed adjacent to the pillar P, which brings the indenting-point of the diaphragm G opposite the first groove on the cylinder, over which is placed a sheet of thick metallic foil, paper, or other yielding material. The tube B is then adjusted toward the cylinder until the indenting-point touches the material and indents it slightly. The clock-work is then set running, and words spoken in the tube B will cause the diaphragm to take up every vibration, and these movements will be recorded with surprising accuracy by indentations in the foil.

After the foil on the cylinder has received the required indentations, or passed to its full limit toward O, it is made to return to P by proper means, and the indented material is brought to a position for reproducing and rendering audible the sounds that had been made by the person speaking into the tube B.

C is a tube similar to B, except that the diaphragm is somewhat lighter and more sensitive, although this is not actually necessary. In front of this diaphragm is a light spring, D, having a small point shorter and finer than the indenting-point on the diaphragm of B. This spring and point are so arranged as to fall exactly into the path of all the indentations. This spring is connected to the diaphragm F of C by a thread or other substance capable of conveying the movements of D.

Now, when the cylinder is allowed to rotate, the spring D is set in motion by each indentation corresponding to its depth and length. This motion is conveyed to the diaphragm either by vibrations through a thread or directly by connecting the spring to the diaphragm F, and these motions being due to the indentations in the foil, the diaphragm will vibrate and produce sounds corresponding to the indentations, and will thus reproduce the original spoken words with great accuracy.

I do not limit myself to recording sound by indentations only, as the transmitting or recording device may be in a sinuous form, resulting from the use of a thread passing with paper beneath the pressure-rollers, (see Fig. 3,) such thread being moved laterally by a fork or eye adjacent to the rollers, and receiving its motion from the diaphragm G, with which such fork or eye is connected, and thus record the movement of the diaphragm by the impression of the thread in the paper to the right and left of a straight line, from which indentation the receiving diaphragm can be vibrated.

I claim as my invention:

1. The method herein specified of reproducing the human voice or other sounds by causing the sound-vibrations to be recorded by embossing or indenting, or otherwise altering a yielding material, and subsequently utilizing such indentations or altered material to set in motion a vibrating plate or diaphragm, substantially as set forth.

2. The combination, with a diaphragm and stylus, of a grooved cylinder mounted on a screw-threaded shaft, to advance longitudinally while rotating, substantially as described.

3. The combination of the grooved cylinder, a sheet of tinfoil or yielding recording material, and an indenting point actuated by acoustic vibrations, substantially as set forth.

4. The combination, with a recording diaphragm and stylus, of a reproducing diaphragm and tracer, adapted to track in the recorded indentations, substantially as specified.
