--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 1 OF 3 ---

                                                               ,ºº-•I
(No Model.)
                     L. A. PELTON.
                      Water Wheel,




              M. PETERS, ProTo-utioGRAPHgr, wASHINGTON, D.C.


--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 2 OF 3 ---

          UNITED STATES PATENT OFFICE.
                 LESTER A. PELTON, OF CAMPTON VILLE, CALIFORNIA.
                                        WATER WHEEL.

        SPECIFICATION forming part of Letters Patent No. 233,692, dated October 26, 1880.
                                   Application filed July 3, 1880. (No model.)

     To all whom it may concern:                     water strikes this apex it will be divided into
       Be it known that I, LESTER A. PELTON, of two parts, each of which is directed into one So
    Camptonville, county of Yuba, and State of of the bottoms c. The sides e are continua
    California, have invented an Improved Wa tions of the bottom, and stand at such an in
    ter-Wheel; and I hereby declare the follow cline outward, that the Water passes smoothly
    ing to be a full, clear, and exact description from the apex down into the bottoms, and
    thereof.                                         thence up the inclined sides e, so as to dis
       My invention relates to certain improve charge clear of the next bucket and at the
     ments in that class of Water-wheels known as sides of the wheel. This action of the water
 IO “hurdy-gurdy” wheels, which are driven by
                                                     causes it to be delivered upon the wheel with
    the momentum of a stream of water delivered the full force due to its momentum, and in
    into buckets on the periphery of the wheel passing through the curved bottom and up the
    through a nozzle and under a high pressure. inclined sides the reactionary force due to this
    When the Water is delivered upon flat or flat change of direction is also added to the pri
    bottomed buckets in this class of wheels it mary power to assist in driving the wheel.
    Splashes and reacts against the bottoms of The fronts b of the buckets are at such an in
    the succeeding buckets, thus retarding the cline or angle that the bottom is nearer the
    Wheel. Buckets having pointed and other face of the wheel than the top, so that their
    shaped bottoms have been used to overcome faces will not strike the streams of water from
    the difficulty named, and with some success. the nozzle and thus retard the wheel; but
       In my invention I construct a wheel having When a bucket has arrived in line with the
    a flat face, and upon this face I secure pecu streams the water will instantly strike the
    liar-shaped buckets which are adapted to re apex d.
    ceive the stream from the nozzle and divide it, The water is brought to the wheel through
25 so that the two parts of the stream are di a pipe or pipes, and is discharged upon it
    rected into the curved bottoms of the two through a nozzle or nozzles, FF. In the pres
    halves of the bucket, and by means of the in ent case I have shown a distributing-box, G,
    clined or flaring sides the two streams are which receives the water from the main pipe
    caused to react and escape smoothly at each and delivers it. to the nozzles F. One or more
    side, so that the whole reactionary force of the of these nozzles may be employed, and they
    water is utilized, and the water is discharged are placed tangentially to the periphery of the
    clear of the wheel and the following bucket. wheel, or so that when a bucket is in line the
       Referring to the accompanying drawings for water will strike exactly in its center. In the
    a more complete explanation of my invention, present case I have shown two nozzles, and it
35 Figure 1 is a perspective view of my wheel. will be manifest that more may be added at
    Fig. 2 is a side elevation and section of dis will. Each nozzle is set so as to discharge
    tributing-box and discharge pipes or nozzles. into the second bucket from the one acted
    Fig. 3 is a perspective view of one of the upon by the previous nozzle, thus allowing
    buckets. Fig. 4 is a section of the same.        each bucket to clear itself before receiving the
       A is a wheel, which may be of any suitable water from another nozzle. By this arrange
    construction and size, and it has a rim pro ment I am enabled to add to the power of the
    vided with a flat face, upon which the buckets wheel without increasing the area of the
    B are secured. These buckets may beformed buckets.
    separately, and screwed, soldered, or other The form of the buckets may be varied
45 wise fastened upon the wheel-rim, or they may somewhat to obtain the best results; but the
    be formed as a part of the wheel itself, if de essential features of the two-part bucket with 95
    sired. The buckets have a bottom or bottons the dividing-apex, the curved bottom, and the
    formed in two distinct curves, cc, which meet flaring discharge sides will not be altered.
    in an apex at d, so that when the stream of Having thus described my invention, what.


--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 3 OF 3 ---

  2                                        233,692

 I claim as new, and desire to secure by Let- ceived into the bucket without striking its
  ters Patent, is-                               face, substantially as herein described.     d
    In a water-wheel, the buckets laving the        In witness whereof I have hereunto set my
  curved bottoms c, meeting at the apex d, and hand.
5 continued to form the inclined discharge sides                      LESTER A. PELTON.
  e, in combination with the bucket-front b, Witnesses:
  standing at an incline with the wheel-face, so         S. H. NoURSE,
  that the stream from the nozzle shall be re-        FRANK. A. BROOKS.
