--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 1 OF 5 ---

                                                       2 Sheets-Sheet 1   -



(No Model                           H. S. MAXIM.
                                    MACHINE GUN.




                                                   ?
                SSS




            z




                      2




                                                                    S
                                                                    S
                                                                    S.
                                                        SSSSSSSSSSSSS
                 SSSSSSSSSSSSSSSS


--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 2 OF 5 ---

(No Model.)                               2. Sheets-Sheet 2,
                 H. S. MAXIM.
                 MACHINE GUN.
No. 319,596.               Patented June 9, 1885.




     ·ž2ZZé25?                                   77vervor p
 vz.             -              ???? ?? ?? ? ????? ????? ?? ?????
                                                       ????2


--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 3 OF 5 ---

              UNITED STATES PATENT OFFICE,
          HIRAM. S. MAXIM, OF LONDON, COUNTY OF MIDDLESEX, ENGLAND.
                                                       MA C H I N E G UN,

               SPECIFICATION forming part of Letters Patent No. 319,596, dated June 9, 1885.
    Application filed March 14, 1885. (No model.) Patented in England January 3, 1884, No. 606, and in France June 13, 1884, No. 162,737.

    To aid, whom it may concern:                   * A is a strong metal frame, which is pro
       Be it known that I, HIRAM. S. MAXIM, a vided with a lid or cover, A', and which may
    citizen of the United States, residing at Lon be mounted on any suitable stand or carriage.
    don, in the county of Middlesex, England,
  5 have invented certain new and useful Improve B is the barrel, which is fixed in the frame 55
                                                       A, and C is the breech-block.
    ments in Machine-Guns, of which the follow
      ing is a specification, reference being had to or Fitted upon the muzzle of the gun is a sleeve
                                                         tubular piece, l, which piece is firmly united
      the drawings accompanying and forming a to a socket, l', free to slide a short distance to
      part of the same, this application being a di and fro on the barrel B, and connected by the 6o
  IO vision of one filed by me May 27, 1884, No.
                                                      side rods or links, in and n' to levers n, pivoted
      132,883, and for an invention patented by me upon a pin or rod, n', fixed in the frame A.
     in Great Britain January 3, 1884, No. 606, and The diameter of the sleeve or tubular piece l.
     in France June 13, 1884, No. 162,737.            is diminished at its front end in the manner
        My improvements, which form the subject shown, so that a bullet can pass through the 65
     of this application, relate to a machine or au same; but the gases issuing from the muzzle of
     tomatic magazine-gun described and shown in the gun will, by reason of their expansion,
     my application May 27, 1884, No. 132,883. In act upon the series of shoulders, and force the
     the gun referred to the construction is of such tubular piece land its socket l' to move for
     nature that the force of the gases which issue ward upon the barrel when the gun is fired.
     from the muzzle of the gun at each discharge Two bars or rods, c' c', with right-angled
     of the same is utilized for extracting and ends c, are arranged to slide through aper
     ejecting the empty cartridge-case, cocking the tures,  serving as guides, in the frame A. The
     hammer, bringing another cartridge into po ends c” of these rods are connected by means
     sition for firing, and firing the same, or for links 0 with the levers n, as shown in Fig. 75
 25 preparing the arm for the next discharge, or of   1. The rear ends of the rods care connected
     for effecting one or more of these operations, with the breech mechanism, as hereinafter de
     and in Some cases storing energy to be sub scribed.
     sequently used for effecting the remainder d is a slotted arm or cross-head, which is
     thereof.                                        fixed to or formed integrally with the breech. So
        The particular means for utilizing the force block C, and which is provided with a guide
     of the gases in the case referred to comprised rod, d, extending rearwardly therefrom and
    a vacuum-chamber, in communication with a free to slide to and fro in a guide, d, carried
    tubular open chamber surrounding the muz by the frame A. A crank-shaft, e, is carried
    zle of the gun, and a movable piston in the in bearings efixed to the frame A, and is so
35 chamber, connected with the breech mechan arranged that the crank-pin efits within the
    ism in such manner that the movement of the slot in the cross-head d. Two arms, f, are
    piston effected the proper operation of the fixed to the crank eat right angles thereto,
    breech mechanism. In lieu of using in this and a pin or rod, f', is passed through these
    way the force of the gases indirectly, they may arms and connected by the links f' to the rear 90
40 tions
    be used directly to effect the several opera end of the two rods c. When the rods are
           of reloading, firing, and extracting; and moved rearwardly, the cranke is partially ro
    the subject of my present application is a gun tated, the said crank acting upon the CFOSS
    constructed for so utilizing the gases.          head d, so as to draw back the breech-block
       I will describe my invention by reference and the crank-pin traveling in the slot in the 95
45 to the accompanying drawings, in which Fig said cross-head. The crank-shaft e is made
    ure 1 is a vertical central longitudinal sec with a square portion to receive a hand-wheel,
    tion of a gun constructed in accordance with e', for operating the breech mechanism by
    my invention. Fig. 2 is a plan of the same, hand.
    partly in section, on line ac aº, Fig. 1. Fig. 3 g is the extractor, and h the sear, which are ICO
    is a side view of a portion of the breech-case both pivoted to the breech-block C, and it is a
    with the parts attached thereto.                 spring fixed to the said sear, and tending to


--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 4 OF 5 ---

  2                                           319,596

      hold the extractor g in engagement with the flange of the cartridge-case. The rearward
      flange of a cartridge when the latteris inserted movement of the hooked rod K draws a car
      in the barrel. This spring also tends to hold tridge from the uppermost groove of the feed 7o
      the searh down, so that it will engage with wheel Q and the projection C on the breech
    5 the firing-pin i. The said firing-pin passes block acts upon one of the teeth of the feed
      longitudinally through the center of the breech wheel Q and causes the partial rotation of
      block C, and is encircled by a spiral spring, ', the feed-wheels, as described in the specifi
      which tends to press the same forward. The cation        above referred to. The energy stored 75
       said firing-pin is provided at its rear end with up in the spring k by the partial rotation of
II. ? a head, i", which has a knife-edge and a roller, the cranke then causes the tubular piece to
       i", carried by a pin fixed in the said head. A move back into position, and the breech-block
                                                         and parts connected therewith to move for
       lever, i, is pivoted to the cross-head d, one ward.
       end of which lever extends upward between                 This forward movement causes the
       the said knife-edge and the roller i, and the     feed-wheels QQ to be again partially rotated
       other end of which extends downward into by the projection C, so as to bring a fresh
       the path of the crank-pine". These parts are cartridge in line with the barrel, and also to
       so arranged that during the rearward move bring a fresh cartridge in the feed-wheel Q in
       ment of the cross-head d the crank-pin eº acts line with the lowermost groove of the feed
       upon the lever i and causes it to draw back wheel Q. The breech-block is, moreover,
       the firing-pin i until the searh, which is acted driven home-that is to say, driven firmly
       upon by the spring h", engages with the head against the breech end of the barrel-and in
       i" of the said firing-pin and holds the same in its forward movement forces the cartridge into
       its cocked position. When the sear thus falls the barrel, and at the moment the breech is
        into engagement with the firing-pin the ex closed the crank-pin e" is forced against the
 25 tractor g is disengaged from the flange of the end of the searh, and pushes the same up SO
       cartridge or cartridge-case in the barrel.        as to release the firing-pin i, which is acted
           The feed-wheels Q, Q are similar to those de upon by the spring i", and discharges the car
        scribed in the specification filed with my said tridge in the barrel. This movement of the 95
        former application for Letters Patent, and are sear also causes the extractorg to engage With
        operated in a similar manner, the hooked rod the flange of the said cartridge. The discharge
        K" for removing or transferring the cartridges of the fresh cartridge again operates the mech
        from the feed-wheel Q to the feed-wheel Q be anism in the manner above described. It Will IOO
        ing fixed to the cross-head d.                   therefore be understood that after the first
           The return movement of the piston c and discharge the fire-arm operates automatically
  35 parts connected therewith is caused by a vo until all the cartridges in the magazine or in
        lute spring, k, like an ordinary clock-spring. the feed-wheels are fired.
        This spring is arranged within a cover or case, It is obvious that my invention may be ap
        lc, to which one end of the said spring is se plied to various descriptions of fire - arms,
        cured, the other end thereof being secured either for storing energy, to be subsequently
        to the crank-shaft e. The cover or case lic' used for effecting the operations necessary in
      i is attached to the frame A by screws k" pass loading and firing the same, or preparing the
        ing through the slots lc’, and the said cover or arm for the next discharge, or for directly IO
        case is provided with a handle, k", so that it effecting one or more of these operations and
         can be adjusted in either direction to regulate storing energy to be afterwards used for effect
45 the tension of the Spring k.       By these means ing the remainder of the said operations.
    the tension of the spring can be so diminished What I claim as my invention is
    that after the breech-block and other parts 1. The combination, with the sliding breech
    have been moved backward by the force of block and the loading, firing, and extracting II 5
    the explosion, the said spring will not cause mechanism connected therewith, of the slid
    their return movement. The gun can then be ing tubular piece surrounding the muzzle and
    discharged, when desired, by turning the han intermediate connections, between the breech
    dle k'in the opposite direction.                  block and the sliding piece, whereby a move
       The operation of this gun is as follows-that ment of the latter operates the breech mechan
    is to say, the mechanism is operated by hand ism, as set forth.
 55 untila cartridge is fed into the barrel. The dis    2. The combination, with the sliding breech
    charge of this cartridge causes the tubular piece block and the loading, firing, and extracting
    l to move forward and the rods c' are forced mechanism connected therewith, of the slid
    backward. In this rearward movement the ing tubular piece surrounding the muzzle, the I 25
    extractor g withdraws the empty cartridge rods connecting the said piece with the breech
     case from the barrel B into the uppermost mechanism, and theintermediatelever and link
    groove of the feed-wheel Q, and the crank-pin between the tubular piece and the connect
    e', traveling downward in the slotted cross ing-rods, whereby a forward movement of the
     head d, acts upon the leveri and draws back former produces a rearward movement of the
     the firing-pin i until the searh falls and its latter, as described.
 65 shoulder h' engages with the shoulder i' of the 3. The combination, with the barrel B, of
      firing-pin. The downward movement of the the sliding tubular piece l surrounding the
      sear h disengages the extractor g from the muzzle, socket l', into which the rear end of


--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 5 OF 5 ---

                                              319,596

  the same extends, sliding breech-block C, and ing     tubular piecel, surrounding the muzzle,
  bars in and c, with intermediate links, the said and intermediate connections between the same
  bars and links forming a connection between and the crank-shaft, all as set forth.
  the sliding breech-block and the tubular piece In testimony whereof I have hereunto set
5 l, as described.                                 may hand this 16th day of December, 1884.
     4. The combination of the sliding breech                            HIERAM S. MAXIMI.
  block and the breech mechanism connected
  therewith, the crank-shaft e, connected with Witnesses:
  the breech - block, spring k, secured to the            J. R. CLARK, Jr.,
Io crank-shaft and the frame of the gun, the slid        H. M. TAYLOR.
