--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 1 OF 6 ---

 (No Model.)                                                               3 Sheets-Sheet 1.
                       G. DAIMLER.
                EXPLOSIVE G AS MARINE ENGINE,
 No. 361,931.                                          Fitt Apr. 26, 1887.




zzese.
47 4 /441
                                                                   Z722/2Zezozr
                                                            6624722e2 Zezza24ez

                              -4-6-43,
                         N. Peters, photo-lithographer, washington.D. c.


--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 2 OF 6 ---

  (No Model.)                                                                    3 Sheets-Sheet 2.
                            G. DAIMLER.                                                     ..   .
                     EXPLOSIVE GAS MARINE ENGINE,
  No. 361931,                                              Patented Apr. 26, 1887.




17222esses,                                                                      Z722/622227
                v.                                       Øožee(2 Zezzezez:
                                                                   2- -3.2%
                                                                                         232
                               N. FEERs. Photo-Lithographer, Washington, o, c.

                                                                                 s


--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 3 OF 6 ---

 (No Model.)                                                              3 Sheets-Sheet 3.
                      G, DAIMLER.
              EXPLOSIVE GAS MARINE ENGINE.
  No. 361931,                   Patented Apr. 26, 1887.




                                      s
                                              S
                                     N
                                     A
                       HIVGNIH
                        INATIII




/7ZZzesses.                                                               Z722/272Z27
                                                         6ozzzze? Zezz2222272
4- 4 14-e-                                                   ty-Ce2 2.7

                        N. PenzRS, Photo-Lithographer, washington, D.c.


--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 4 OF 6 ---

           UNITED STATES PATENT OFFICE.
           GOTTLIEB DAIMLER, OF CANNSTADT, WüRTEMBERG, GERMANY.
                      EXPLOSIVE-GAS MARINE ENGINE.
           SPECIFICATION forming part of Letters Patent No. 361,931, dated April 26, 1887.
    Application filed November 9, 1886. Serial No. 218,411. (No model.) Patented in France October 26, 1886, No. 179,236; in Eng.
       land November 1, 1886, No. 14,043; in Italy November 23, 1886, No. 20,721; in Belgium December 15, 1886, No. 75,352; and in
       Germany March 1, 1887, No. 39,367.

  To all whom, it may concern:                                      in combination with the motion of the vessel
    Be it known that I, GOTTLIEB DAIMLER, a or by a centrifugal pump driven by the mo
  citizen of Wirtemberg, residing at Cannstadt, tor, and, lastly, in utilizing the waste-spaces
   in the Kingdom of Würtemberg and Empire of the vessel as gas-reservoirs, either at atmos
   of Germany, have invented a new and useful pheric or higher pressure, and in arranging
   Apparatus for Effecting Marine Propulsion by these in such manner as to make the ship
   Gas or Petroleum Motor-Engines, (for which I more       or less unsinkable.
   have obtained a patent in France, dated Octo On the accompanying drawings, Figure 1
   ber 26, 1886, No. 179,236; in Belgium, dated shows a part longitudinal section of a vessel
 O December 15, 1886, No. 75,352; in Italy, dated with gas or petroleum motor engine con
   November 23, 1886, No. 20,721; in Germany, structed according to my invention. Fig. 2
   dated March 1, 1887, No. 39,367, and have shows a cross-section. Fig. 3 shows a plan;
   made application for patent in Great Britain, Figs. 4, 4', 4', detail views of the thrust-bear
   dated November 1, 1886, No. 14,043,) of which ing for the propeller; Fig. 5, a broken longi
   the following is a specification.                  tudinal sectional view showing one of the
      My invention relates to apparatus for effect high-pressure gas-holders, and Fig. 6 a trans
   ing the propulsion of a boat or vessel by a gas verse sectional view of Fig. 5.                 -
   or petroleum motor instead of by a steam-en A is the motor-engine. c is the half-coup
   gine, Whereby a maximum of speed is obtained ling fixed on the motor-shaft; c, that fixed on
   with a minimum extent of immersion of the the propeller-shaft b, which is in line with the
   vessel, inasmuch as the load of coals, water, motor-shaft and can shift longitudinally Some
   and metal ballast required with the latter is what in its bearings. In addition to the coup
   greatly diminished, so that the capacity and ling a' it carries the reversing-disk c, and at
    power of the vessel are utilized to a much its outer end the screw-propeller d, all being 75
25 greater extent in the transport of loads. As fixed thereon. The half-coupling a? acts with
    the motor I employ, by preference, the gas or its projecting flange as friction-disk for re
    petroleum motor-engine described in the speci versing.
    fication to my United States Patent No.349,983, oneThe   motor-engine is driven continuously in
    dated September 28, 1886. The motor-engine            and the same direction.
    is so arranged as to drive the screw-propeller For the forward propulsion of the vessel the
    through a friction-coupling for the forward propeller-shaft is in the first instance pressed
    motion, and through friction or toothed gear by hand or otherwise toward the motor, so
    ing for the backward motion, in such manner that the half-couplings a? a are in sufficient
    that the motion of the screw-propeller pro frictional contact to effect the starting of the
35 duces automatically the required frictional con screw, whereupon the thrust of the latter itself
    tact of the coupling or of the gearing.           maintains the required contact. The coup
       The improvements consist, furthermore, in | lingFora? the
                                                             a may be either conical or flat.
                                                                 backward motion of the vessel the
    arranging the propeller-shaft, with its propeller
    and half-coupling, to slide longitudinally some propeller-shaft is drawn backward, so as to 90
    what for the above purpose, and in combining disconnect the coupling at a', while the inter
    together the apparatus for stopping, starting, mediate friction-disks, e. e., are at the same
    and reversing the screw-propeller, and for the time pressed by elbow-leversff" against the
    steering of the vessel, so as to effect these op disks a c, in consequence of which the screw
    erations at one and the same point; also, in the will be rotated in the contrary direction, so 95
    provision of a thrust-bearing at the motor-en as to propel the ship backward. The elbow
    gine for taking the thrust of the screw, in com leversff" have their fulcra at gg, and trans
    bination with the starting-gear; also, in effect mit by their connection with the boss of the
    ing the cooling of the motor-cylinder by means disk c the longitudinal motion of the pro OO
     of the water in which the vessel is running, peller-shaft to the disks e'e' by pressing on
 So this being made to circulate round the cylin the projecting centers e'e' thereof. In order
     der either by a siphon arrangement operating to transmit such pressure equally to the two


--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 5 OF 6 ---

   2                                           361.93

    disks e'e', a cross-head, it'll, pivoted at h, is when the engine is started, as shown at Fig.
    employed. The disks e'e rotate free in their 4', so that the bearing q and its crank-handle
    bearings e'e', and when not acted on by the r' will then remain stationary.              -       7o
    leversff they are pushed outward by helical The cooling of the motor-cylinder is effected
  5 springs ete, so as to be out of contact with by a current of water passing through the
    the disks a c. In place of the disks a et c pipes' from the bows of the vessel to the jacket
    may also be used bevel-wheels always kept in of the cylinder, and thence through the pipe
    gear, in which case the wheel taking the place s' to the stern, the current being produced 75
    of c would be loose on the propeller-shaft and on the forward motion of the vessel by the
IO formed with a coupling similar to a'. A forcing action at the trumpet-mouthed forward
    bearing behind the latter would then take the end of s and by the exhaust action at the rear
    pull of the reversed propeller-shaft, and this end of s. For starting the siphon-like action,
    pull would effect the frictional contact of the the pipes and water jacket are in the first in- 8o
    coupling of c for running backward.               stance filled with water through a funnel, t,
I5 For pressing the propeller-shaft forward to with cockt, the supply-pipes' being provided
    Ward the motor-engine, a helical spring, i', with a stop-valve, s. According to another
    is provided, which always tends to move the arrangement, the water is drawn up from the
    shaft forward, so as to keep the coupling a? a outside by a centrifugal pump, u, and, after cir- 85
    slightly in contact. In order to prevent the culating through the jacket, flows back to the
    coupling a? a from being brought too rapidly outside again. The two arrangements may be w
    into forcible contact by the thrust of the pro combined, as shown on the drawings.
    peller, so as to insure a gradual starting, as For discharging bilge-water, the pipes has
    also a gradual stopping and reversing, a a funnel-opening, v, provided with a three
    screw-spindle, k, with hand wheel or crank way stop-cock, so that the circulating water -
25 k', elbow-lever l, and fixed collar i, are pro can either be drawn from the bilge or from the
    vided. The collar serves as abutment for external water. In place of a centrifugal pump
    the spring i and is loose on the shaft. In an air-fan for cooling the cylinder by means of
    place of the spring and collar i, a second air-currents may be used.                             95
    fixed collar may be fixed on the shaft in front When using combustible gas for working the
    of the lever l, so that the forward motion of motor-engine, high-pressure gas-holders care
    the shaft is also effected by this. The lever provided on the vessel in suitable places
    may also be arranged either straight or as an such as under the seats-while other parts of
    elbow-lever to be acted upon directly by hand the vessel-as, for instance, spaces 10' in the ICC
    or foot, instead of through a screw-spindle. hold under the deck-may themselves be
35 By the above-described arrangement, where formed into reservoirs of gas at atmospheric
    in the propeller-shaft is connected to the en pressure, for which purposes these spaces are
    gine-shaft by a frictional coupling controlled lined with a gas-tight fabric, which may be
    by the spindle k' and lever l', it will be seen made as a bag, so as to expand against the un I o5
   that without altering the speed of the engine der side of the deck when charged with gas, as
    the speed of the propeller, and consequently indicated on the drawings. These gas hold
   the motion of the vessel, can be increased or ers or reservoirs are charged, respectively, with
    decreased at will or entirely stopped by sim gas at high pressure and at atmospheric press
    ply causing the frictional coupling to be ure at the end station. The motor - engine O
   brought in contact with greater or less force. draws in the gas from the bag-like reservoir
       For steering the vessel the rudder n is con w", and this is replenished from the high-press
    nected by a chain or other mechanism with ure reservoir w” through a cock, ac, that is
    the shaft o', which is turned in one direction opened and closed either by hand or automat
   or the other, by means of the levers o'o', by ically by a tappet connected to the rising and 115
   the steersman sitting on the seat p. Thespin falling baggy. The several high-pressure gas
SO dle k is either carried through the steering holders are all connected either directly to the
   shaft o', as shown, or it is arranged at the side low-pressure reservoir or they are connected
   thereof, so as to have the whole controlling with each other by means of pipes provided
   mechanism arranged conveniently together at with stop-cocks. They also serve as floats for
   the seat p.                                       rendering the vessel entirely or partially un
55 The thrust of the propeller is taken by the sinkable.
   thrust-bearing q on the front side of the mo When using petroleum for working the mo
   tor-engine. This bearing is shown to an en tor-engine, I employ, by preference, the petro
   larged scale at Figs. 4, 4", and 4. It is pro leum apparatus described in my before-men 25
   vided with a crank-handle, '', by means of tioned prior patent.
6o which the engine can be started. For this Having thus described the nature of my in
   purpose the bearing has a sliding pin, ', which vention and the best means I know for carry
   can be pushed inward, so as to gear with a ing the same into practical effect, I claim
   stud, ', on the motor-shaft, so that the rota 1. The combination, with the propeller and 13c
   tion of the bearing will also cause the shaft to propeller-shaft of a vessel and part of a fric
65 be rotated, so as to start the engine. The tion-coupling on said shaft, of a gas or petro.
   pin being formed with an incline, it will be leum motor-engine having its shaft arranged
   pushed out of gear by the pressure of the stud in line with the propeller-shaft and provided


--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 6 OF 6 ---

                                               361,931                                             3

    with part of a friction-coupling for effecting 7. The combination, with the water-jacket of
    the forward motion of the vessel and gearing the motor-cylinder, of fore and aft pipes, ss,
    between the propeller-shaft and the part of the arranged with siphon-like action and commu
    friction-coupling on the engine for effecting nicating with the outer water for effecting the 5o
 5 the backward motion of the vessel, substan water,  cooling of the cylinder by means of the outer
    tially as described.                                     substantially as described.
       2. The combination, with the propeller-shaft 8. The combination, with the water-jacket of
    having a longitudinal movementin its bear ng the motor-cylinder, of fore and aft pipes, ss,
    and provided with part of a friction-clutch, of arranged with siphon-like action, and commu- 55
It) a gas or petroleum motor-engine having its nicating with the outer water for cooling the
    shaft arranged in line with the propeller-shaft cylinder, and a centrifugal pump, t, for effect
    and provided with part of a friction-coupling ing the circulation of the water, substantially
    which engages and disengages the part of the as described.
    friction-coupling by the longitudinal move 9. The combination, with the water-jacket of 6o
    ment of said propeller-shaft, substantially as the motor-cylinder, of fore and aft pipes, ss,
    described.                                        arranged with siphon-like action and commu
       3. In combination with a gas or petroleum nicating with the outer water, a centrifugal
     motor-engine, a propeller-shaft connected to pump, t, for effecting the circulation of the
    the engine-shaft by a friction-coupling and water, and the branch pipe , having a three
    capable of sliding longitudinally in its bear. way cock for enabling the circulating water to
    ings, so that the thrust of the propeller when be taken either from the outer water or from
     in motion will maintain the frictional contact the bilge, substantially as described.
    of the coupling.                                    10. In a vessel propelled by a gas motor-en
       4. In combination with the frictional coup gine, the combination, with the gas motor-en
25 ling connecting the engine-shaft with the slid ine, of a screw-propeller whose shaft is ca
     ing propeller-shaft, the friction-disks a c e e” pable of sliding longitudinally and is geared to
     and the leversff", connected to the propeller forthe engine-shaft by a friction-coupling, means
     shaft, constituting mechanism for reversing          longitudinally shifting the propeller-shaft
     the motion of the propeller, the pull of the lat for
                                                      a
                                                          varying the speed, stopping, and reversing, 75
                                                        low-pressure  gas-reservoir for supplying the
3O ter when reversed being made to effect the re
   quired frictional contact between the disks e'e' gas motor-engine with combustible gas, and
   and a c for this purpose.                        one or more high-pressure gas-holders that
     5. The combination, with a motor-engine, the supply the low-pressure reservoir through re
   propeller-shaft of a vessel, and a friction-coup ducing cocks or valves, substantially as herein 8o
   ling connecting the engine and propeller-shaft, described.
   of a thrust-bearing, q, for taking the thrust of In testimony whereofI have signed my name
   the propeller, and means for starting the en to     this specification, in the presence of two sub
   gine, comprising the crank-handler' and slid scribing
                                                     D. 1886.
                                                              witnesses, this 23d day of October, A.
   ing pin r", substantially as described.
40 6. The combination, with the rudder and the                          GOTTLIEB DAIMLER,
                                                                                                           -


   longitudinally-movable propeller-shaft, of the
   vertical shaft o', levers o', chain n, or equiv Witnesses:
   alent screw-spindle k', and devices connect                             .
   ing said spindle with the propeller-shaft for            WILHELMMAYBACH,
45 steering the vessel and shifting the propeller           HERMAN KEPPLER.
   shaft, substantially as described.
