--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 1 OF 3 ---



--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 2 OF 3 ---

        UNITED STATES PATENT OFFICE.
      RICHARD J. GATLING, OF IND IANA POLIS, IND I A NA.
              IMPROVEMENT IN REVOLVING BATTERY GUNS.
             Specification forming part of Letters Patent No. 36, S36, dated November 4, 1862.

   To all chon it may concern:                         in the outer casing and disk, which protects
      Be it known that I, RICHARD J. GATLING, the locks from injury.
   of Indianapolis, county of Marion, and State of Similar letters of reference indicate corre.
   Indiana, have invented new and useful Im- sponding parts in the several figures.
   provements in Fire-Arms; and I do hereby To enable others skilled in the art to make
   declare that the following is a full and exact and use my invention, I will proceed to de
   description thereof, reference being had to the scribe its construction and operation.
   accompanying drawings, making part of this I construct my gun usually with six ordi.
   specification, in which-                            nary rifle-barrels, E, fixed at their rear and
      Figure 1 is a side elevation of the gun with forward ends into circular plates F and G,
   the upper portion of the wheels cut away. Fig. which are rigidly secured to a shaft, N, upon
   2 is a vertical longitudinal section through the which is also rigidly fixed the grooved carrier
   center of the gun. Fig. 3 is a top view of the C and lock-cylinder D and cog-wheel K. A
   gun with the top half of the external casing, A, case or shield, A, covers and protects the lock
   left off and the middle portion of the barrels cylinder and cog-wheel. All of these several
   cut away to shorten the drawing. Fig. 4 is a parts are mounted on a frame, B, and are sup.
   transverse section through lock-cylinder on ported by an ordinary gun-carriage. The lock
   line a y in Figs.1 and 2. Fig.5is an end view cylinder D is perforated longitudinally with
   of the grooved carrier C which receives the six holes, (corresponding to the number of bar.
   cartridges or cartridge-chambers. Fig. 6 is a rels,) as shown in Fig. 4, and has slots cut
   side view of one of the tubes containing the through from the surface of the cylinder to the
   mainspring and hammer of one of the locks, holes to admit the projecting portion of the
   Fig. 7 is a perspective view of the ring P hammers b. In the perforations or holes in
   which surrounds the forward end of the lock- the lock-cylinder the locks (one of which is
   cylinder D, having inclined planes on its rear shown in elevation in Fig. 6) are placed.
   edge for cocking and drawing back the ham- The locks are constructed of the tubes a. a,
.. mers to their proper position.                      &c., having a flanged breech-pin, c, secured in
      The object of this invention is to obtain a their rear ends and provided with hammers b
   simple, compact, durable, and efficient fire- and mainsprings d, all formed and arranged
   arm for war purposes, to be used either in at- as clearly shown in section in Fig. 2;
   tack or defence, one that is light when con- C is a grooved carrier for conveying the
   pared with ordinary field-artillery, that is easily cartridge-chambers from the reservoir or hop
   transported, that may be rapidly fired, and that per H up to the position in which they are
   can be operated by few men.                         fired, and thence on around until they fall out
      The invention consists in a singularly-con. by their own weight; but that the cartridge
   structed revolving lock cylinder or breech, in chambers may be removed with certainty from
   combination with a grooved carrier and bar. the grooved carrier C a comb or rake is pro
   rels all rigidly fixed upon the same shaft, and vided and attached to the frame, as shown by
   all of which revolve together when the gun is the red lines in Figs. 2 and 3.
   in operation, the locks and grooves in the car. P, Figs. 2, 3, and 7, is a ring encircling the
   rier and the barrels all being parallel with the forward end of the lock-cylinder D, and is
axis of revolution.                        rigidly secured by lugs to the frame B. The
  The invention also consists in the novel rear edge of this ring is formed into two in
means employed in cocking and firing the gun clined planes, as clearly shown in Fig. 3, the
without the use of a trigger by means of the greater inclined plane serving to push back
inclined plane on the rear edge of the ring P, or cock the hammers b as they are successively
which surrounds the forward end of the lock- revolved, while the lesser inclined plane serves
cylinder, and also in the novel use of the in- to push the hammers back into their proper
ner tubes (which contain the locks) to press- places within the tubesa after they have struck
the cartridge-chambers firmly against the rear the percussion-cap, so as to allow the cartridge
ends of the barrels while being discharged, and chambers to drop from the carrier.


--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 3 OF 3 ---

                                            36,836

  The disk I forms a division in the case A ring P, and when they have passed the high
the forward portion of the case forming a est point of the inclined plane they are driven
shield or covering for the locks, while the rear forward against tle percussion-cap on the nip
division contains and protects the cog-wheel ple of tlhe cartridge-chamber by the coiled
K and L. In the forward face of the disk a mainspring e with sufficient force to explode
small steel plug, O, is inserted, having its for the cap and discharge the cartridge, after
 ward face rounded or swelled out slightly be which the cartridge-holder is carricdon around
yond the face of the disk. This swell is for the until it drops out of the carrier by its own
 purpose of pressing the tubes a forward against weight, when it is ready to be taken up and
the cartridge-clhambers R, and thus pressing reloaded.                 w
the cartridge-chambers firmly against the rear I do not claim the use of the grooved or
end of the barrel at the time of each and every fluted revolving carrier C, separately consid
discharge, thereby preventing the escape of ered, and when the same is made to revolve
gas from the ignited powder. The forward mo separately and independently of the barrels
tion of the tubes a, caused by the swell O on and breech, the same being an old device;
disk I, also assists in compressing the main neither (lo I claim tlho direct combination
springs d, thereby increasing the force of the thereof with an automatic revolving gear or
blow from the lock-hammers b upon the per with a device for pressing the cartridge-cham
cussion-caps on the nipples of the cartridge ber against the barrel when used alone for
chambers.                                         that purpose; but
   The rounded heads of the breech-pin c bear What I do claim as new and as my inven.
against the forward face of the disk I, being tion, and desire to secure by Letters Patent,
kept in their position by the coiled springs ee, S
&c., which surround the rear ends of the tubes 1. The combination of the lock-cylinder or
a ca, &c., the springs e bearing against the rear breech D with the grooved carrier C, circular
end of the lock-cylinder and against the flange plate F, and barrels E E, &c., the lock-cylin
of the breech-pin c. By this arrangement the der or breech, carrier, and circular plate being
forward ends of the locks are kept flush with firmly fastened upon the main shaft N, and
the forward face of the lock-cylinder until they the locks, grooves in the carrier, and barrels
are revolved opposite the swell o, when they being arranged on a line parallel with the axis
are pressed forward, as before described.         of revolution, the whole revolving together
   The shaft N, upon which the lock-cylinder when the gun is in operation, substantially as
D, carrier C, barrels E, and cog-wheel K are described.
rigidly secured, has a bearing near its rear end 2. In the construction of revolving fire-arms,
in disk I and a bearing at its forward end in the use of as many locks as there are barrels,
a box on the frame B. A crank-shaft, M, runs said locks revolving simultaneously with the
through the rear part of ease A and has fixed breech and barrels, and being arranged and
upon it the small cog-wheel or pinion L and operated substantially as set forth.
crank S.                                            3. The stationary ring P, provided with in
   An adjusting-screw, T, is placed in the box clined planes on its rear edge, in combination
opposite the forward end of shaft N, for regu with lock-cylinder ID and locks, when con
lating the pressure upon the cartridge-cham structed and operated for the purposes sub
bers R. The cartridge-chambers R., (any de stantially as set forth.
sired number of which may be used,) being 4. The tubes a a, &c., furnished with the
loaded, are placed in the hopper or reservoir, flanged breech-pins c c, &c., and springs ee,
with their nipple or cap ends toward the ham &c., and which contain the lock-hammers b
mers, over the grooved carriers C, when, by b, &c., and mainsprings d d, &c., in combina
rotating the crank S, which carries with it the tion with the revolving breech D, disk I, and
shaft M, and pinion L, which meshes into the swell o, when constructed, arranged, and op
large cog-wheel K, thereby revolving the shaft erated for the purposes substantially as set
N, lock-cylinder D, carrier C, and barrels E, forth.
the cartridges drop or rather roll into the 5. The disk I, in combination with the ex
grooves of carrier C and are carried by it up ternal breech-piece or casing, A, which forms
to the position in which they are discharged. a shield or covering for the lock-cylinder and
The hammers, cartridge-chambers, and barrels which protects the locks and cog-wheels from
all being on a line parallel to the axis of revo injury.
lution, it is impossible for the cartridges to be                 RICHARD J. GATLING.
out of place when discharged.                       Witnesses:
   The hammers b are pushed back by the                  A. F. MAYHEw,
large inclined plane on the rear edge of the            W. O. ROCKWOOD,
