--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 1 OF 9 ---

UNITED STATES PATENT OFFICE.
NIKOLA TESLA

ELECTRO-MAGNETIC MOTOR
Specification of Letters Patent No. US 381,968
Grant Date: 1888-05-01

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 2 OF 9 ---

UNITED STATES PATENT OFFICE.
NIKOLA TESLA, OF NEW YORK, N. Y., ASSIGNOR OF ONE-HALF TO CHARLES F. PECK, OF ENGLEWOOD, NEW JERSEY.

ELECTRO-MAGNETIC MOTOR.

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 3 OF 9 ---

SPECIFICATION forming part of Letters Patent No. 381,968, dated May 1, 1888.
Application filed October 12, 1887. Serial No. 252,132. (No model.)

To all whom it may concern:

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 4 OF 9 ---

Be it known that I, NIKOLA TESLA, a subject of the Emperor of Austria, from Smiljan, Lika, border country of Austria-Hungary, residing at New York, in the county and State of New York, have invented certain new and useful Improvements in Electro-Magnetic Motors, of which the following is a specification, reference being had to the drawings accompanying and forming a part of the same.

The subject of my present application is a new and useful improvement in electro-magnetic motors, having for its object to produce the rotation of the armature by the action of alternating currents differing in phase and conveyed to the motor over independent circuits.

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 5 OF 9 ---

In all previous electro-magnetic motors it has been the practice to pass the current through a commutator, or to utilize make-and-break devices to change the direction of current in the armature or field coils. Such commutators and contact brushes are subject to continuous wear, sparking, energy dissipation, and high maintenance, rendering them unsuitable for high-voltage power transmission over long distances.

In accordance with my invention I dispense entirely with commutators, collecting rings, and sliding contacts. I produce a continuously shifting or rotating magnetic field in the stationary part of the motor (the stator) by passing two or more alternating currents having a phase difference through independent energizing circuits.

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 6 OF 9 ---

These energized field poles induce secondary currents in a closed conductor or armature (the rotor) mounted on a shaft within the field. By the interaction of the induced currents with the rotating magnetic field, the armature is dragged around in continuous synchronous or asynchronous rotation with great mechanical torque and high efficiency.

Referring to the drawings:
Figure 1 is an end view and diagram of a motor having four poles energized in pairs by two independent alternating current circuits differing in phase by 90 degrees (quarter-phase or two-phase).
Figure 2 is a similar view showing an alternative form with an annular ring core.
Figure 3 is a diagram illustrating the sinusoidal waveforms of the two alternating currents.
Figure 4 is a diagram showing the resultant rotating magnetic vector at eight successive moments in a complete alternating current cycle.
Figure 5 is a longitudinal central section of the complete motor assembly.
Figure 6 is a diagrammatic representation of the generator and motor connected by four line wires.
Figure 7 is a diagram of an alternative three-phase configuration differing in phase by 120 degrees.
Figure 8 is a detail view of the laminated closed copper rotor.

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 7 OF 9 ---

In Figure 1, the field magnet consists of an annular laminated iron ring provided with four internal poles, A, A', B, B'. The coils on poles A and A' are connected in series to form circuit 1, connected to line wires leading from the first coil of a two-phase alternator. The coils on poles B and B' are connected in series to form circuit 2, connected to line wires leading from the second coil of the alternator, generating currents in quadrature (differing by 90 degrees).

When the current in circuit 1 is at maximum and that in circuit 2 is zero, the magnetic poles are at A and A'. As current in circuit 1 decreases and current in circuit 2 increases, the resultant magnetic vector rotates smoothly toward poles B and B'. Thus the magnetic field shifts continuously around the internal circumference of the stator ring without any moving parts.

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 8 OF 9 ---

The armature consists of a laminated iron cylinder mounted on a central shaft and wrapped with closed coils of heavy copper wire. As the magnetic lines of force sweep across the armature, they induce powerful eddy currents in the closed coils, which according to Lenz's law generate magnetic poles opposing the field change, creating continuous rotational torque.

--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 9 OF 9 ---


