--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 1 OF 4 ---

(No Model.)                                                                        2 sheets-Sheet 1.
                         J. W. RENO.
                  ENDLESS CONWEYOR OR ELEWATOR,
 No. 470,918,                                           Patented Mar. 15, 1892,




     WITNESSES:
a)


74373, c/a,                                                                        y       Y         --e-ele/


                                                                                         ATTORNEY.


                           the Norris Pereins co., PHoTo-Tho., WASHINGTON, d. c.


--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 2 OF 4 ---

(No Model.)                                        2 sheets-Sheet 2.
                               J. W. RENO.
                       ENDEESS CONVEYOR OR ELEWATOR,
No. 470,918,                                 Patented Mar, 15, 1892.




                 2:2           SAS as as as as as as as
                               GMGBGGJB3399%
                               -             -- -
                              22                4s




     WITNESSES                                                 INVENTOR
V-2
                                                          BY
                       /


                                                               ATTORNEY.


--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 3 OF 4 ---

           UNITED STATES PATENT OFFICE.
                            JESSE W. RENO, OF NEW YORK, N.Y.
                        END ESS CONVEYER OR ELEVATOR.

           SPECIFICATION forming part of Letters Patent No. 470,918, dated March 15, 1892.
                       Application filed January 2, 1891, Serial No. 376,455, (No model.)
   To all, whom it may concern.                     ing supported on guides or tracks from the
      Be it known that I, JESSE. W. RENO, of the top to the bottom. Between the pairs of wheels
   city of New York, in the county and State of 3 at the top and bottom of the conveyer the 55
   New York, have invented a new and useful moving belt is supported and slides upon two
   Endless Conveyer or Elevator, which inven I-beams 4, the squared hinged parts of each
   tion is fully set forth and illustrated in the section of the belt fitting into a planed chan
   following specification and accompanying nel 15 in each of Said beams, which channels
   drawings.                                        prevent lateral motion of the belt. Planed
      The object of this invention is in particu channels like 15 of the I-beams 4 are continued
 O lar to provide a mechanical incline or slide as grooves 16 in the wheels 3, as shown in
   conveyer to be used in place of elevators or Figs. 1 and 2, so that as the square parts of
   stairways where large numbers of persons are the hinges 12 leave the sliding or planed sur
   to be transferred from one floor or level to an faces 15 of the beams 4 the rounded parts of 65
   other, either upward or downward.                the hinges are engaged by and supported in
      The invention will first be described in de the seats or notches 17 about the circumfer
   tail, and then particularly set forth in the ences of the wheels 3.
   claims.                                            As it will add to the feeling of security and
      In the accompanying drawings, Figure 1 comfort of the passengers to grasp a hand
   shows a side elevation of part of the conveyer rail as they ascend or descend upon the con
20 and hand-rail at a suitable angle or inclina Veyer a moving hand-rail 10 is provided, as
   tion at its lower end. Fig.2 shows a side ele shown in the drawings. A conveyer would
   vation of the upper end of the conveyer or be complete for a single file of passengers with
   “slide.” Fig. 3 shows a diagram of the de but one moving hand-rail, but for a conveyer 75
   vice in general outline. Fig. 4 shows a cross On which two passengers can stand abreast
   section through the line a b of Fig. 2.          a moving rail on each side of the same would
      In said figures the Several parts are respect be preferably provided.
   ively indicated by reference-numbers as fol In Fig. 4 the moving hand-rail is shown at
   lows:                                            10 and a fixed hand-rail on the opposite side
     The conveyer or elevator proper consists of at 21; but a plain Wall or guard of any kind
   a continuous or endless belt formed of sec may of course take the place of the rail 21.
   tions, preferably of cast-iron, as shown at 2, Referring to Fig. 1, it will be observed that
   Figs. 2 and 4. These sections are hinged to the moving hand-rail is made in short joints
   gether, as shown at 12, and are cast with a or sections 10, which construction permits
   grooved surface, as shown in cross-section in Said rail to bend around the sprocket-wheels
35 Fig. 4. Into the grooves of said surface, which 6. Said sprocket-wheels are preferably made
   may be made about three-fourths of an inch of the same radius as the gear-wheels 3. Mo
   wide by one inch deep, the prongs 5 of the tion may be imparted to the sectional railing
   comb-like landings 14 extend. These land 10 by passing the same around a sprocket
   ings, preferably made of cast-steel, are rigidly wheel similar to wheel 6, suitably secured on
40 fixed, so that their prongs 5 have a clearance shaft 13, Figs. 3 and 4.
   of, preferably, say, not exceeding one-eighth In Fig. 4, at 7 8 10, is shown a section
   of an inch between the bottoms and sides of through the jointed moving hand-rail 10 and
   the grooves in the sections 2 of the endless the fixed railing 7, on which said hand-rail
   belt, Said belt made up of said sections is slides, the steel plates 8, secured to each in
45 turned upon the two pairs of sprocket-wheels dividual rail-piece 10, sliding in a groove in
   3, all of similar design, the notches 17 about the rail 7, as clearly illustrated in said figure.
   their circumferences forming seats into which Said plates 8 are preferably cemented in slots
   the rounded parts of the hinges 12 rest. Power in the rail-pieces 10 and are held to each other CO
   for moving the belt is preferably applied to by the steel links 9, Fig. 1. The lower parts
   the wheels 3 at the top of the conveyer; but of said plates 8 are provided with notches 18,
   power may be applied at the bottom of the So that as the rail-sections 10 travel said
   conveyer, if desired, the return of the belt be notches fit and mesh into the teeth 19 on the


--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 4 OF 4 ---

  2                                           470,918
   circumferences of the wheels 6. The faces of    ened upper surface the conveyer can be stood
   these wheels 6 are channeled similarly to the upon bypassengers with ease, especially when
   channels in the rail 7, so as to hold the plates grasping the traveling hand-rail, which will
    8 securely in position when passing around be moving at the same rate as that of the con so
    them. The rail-pieces 10 are preferably turned Weyer.
    from hard wood, alternately light and dark in Where more than one of these conveyers
     color, so as to attract the attention of passen are used, instead of reversing the direction of
    gers. Of course the same result as that ef the conveyer, one or one set of conveyers, with
    fected by the continous channels and notched their hand-rails, may be run to elevate from 55
  O ridges upon the belt's upper surface can be one floor-level to another, and one or one set
    obtained by substituting rows of pegs, which of elevators, with their hand-rails, may be run
     would also pass between the spaces in the to descend and convey passengers from one
     comb-like landings. Steel balls or small roll floor-level to a lower level, so that there will
     ers may also be substituted for the sliding be no stopping of the conveyers and no change
     contact between the belt-sections 10 and the of direction in their movements, and crowds
     I-beams 4. The belt, however, being perfectly or Streams of perSons may pass each other in
     balanced, much friction is thereby obviated opposite directions without confusion or de
    and the friction-surfaces along the channeled tention.
    I-beams and in the notches or teeth in the         Having thus fully described my said inven
    sprocket-wheels 3 are thoroughly protected tion, I claim
    from falling grit or dirt. At the upper and 1. A traveling conveyer adapted for the con
    lower landings the sprocket-wheels 6 of the veyance of passengers, composed of short links
    moving railing are inclosed in casings, which or sections hinged together in the form of an
    extend over segments of the moving rail, as endless belt, said sections being channeled
25 shown at 20 in Fig. 1. It can now be seen longitudinally, as described, in combination
    that by this invention is provided a continu with a landing or landings channeled or
    ously-moving endless inclined conveyer or combed to register with the channeled sur
    elevator and hand-rail. The passenger who faces of said sections, whereby transfer from
    steps upon said conveyer will be carried by conveyer to landing, or vice versa, is effected, 75
    it either up or down, as the case may be, Substantially as set forth.
    without effort on his part, and as the appa 2. In combination with a conveyer or ele
    ratus is automatic an accident in ascending vator, a traveling hand-rail composed of short
    or descending will be impossible. The con links or sections hinged together in the form
    veyer and its hand-rail will each prefer of an endless chain, and a stationary support
35 ably move at the rate of an average walk or supports and sprocket-wheels therefor, sub
    about two hundred feet per minute-thus giv tantially as set forth.
    ing a maximum capacity of six thousand pas 3. The combination, with a combed land
    sengers per hour in single file. A person step ing or landings, of an endless hinged travel
    ping upon the conveyer will experience no ing platform and an endless traveling hand
    change in his motion and on arriving at the rail therefor, said elements being constructed
    top or bottom will be transferred to the comb and Operating Substantially as and for the .
   shaped landing without any special attention purposes set forth.
    on his part.                                                             JESSE W. RENO.
       It is purposed to have the conveyer set at Witnesses:
45 an angle of slope of about twenty-five degrees,         FRANCIS P. REILLY,
   and when provided with a notched or rough               THEO. II. FRIEND.
