--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 1 OF 5 ---



--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 2 OF 5 ---



--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 3 OF 5 ---

       UNITED STATES PATENT OFFICE.
                             JOHN ERICSSON, OF LONDON, ENGLAND.
                                   PROPELLING STEAM VESSELS.
                    Specification of Letters Patent No. 588, .dated February 1, 1838.
   To all vhon, it may Concer"n:       ×             placed at equal distances from each other
       - Be it known that I, JoHN ERICSSON, a and each having Such a fall or inclination
     subject of the Kingdom of Sweden, residing that it will not have passed Once around the
     at London, England, have invented a new cylinder until it has advanced along it a 60
     and useful Propeller for the Purpose of distance equal to three times its diameter.
     Propelling Steamboats Effectually Notwith | Now if the said cylinder A. A. A with its
     standing Ány Variations in Their Draft of spiral plates or threads be cut of through
     Water, and that the following is a full and the lines D, E and F G, the portions of the
   i exact description of the construction and | spiral plates between the said lines and 65
I10 operation of the said propeller as invented which are here numbered:9, 10, 11, 12 and 13
     by me.                                           show the exact forms and positions which
         This invention which II name as above the plates represented in Fig. 1 by corre- :
     consists in two thin broad metallic hoops or sponding numbers should be made to assume
     short cylinders supported by Spiral arms or while the forms and positions of the plates 70
     Spokes and made to revolve in contrary di 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5, Will be determined in a simi
     rections but at different velocities from each lar manner by running the coils. in a con
     other around a common center, Such hoops trary direction around the same cylinder.
     or cylinders being also placed entirely under Having thus explained the manner in which
     the   water at the stern of a boat and fur the forms and positoins of the Spiral plates 75
20 nished each with a Series of short Spiral. on the hoops A and B ought to be deter
     planes or plates; the plates of each series mined I will now continue the description of
     standing at an: angle, the exact converse of Fig. 1. c, c, c, c, c, c, c, c, are narrow hoops
     the angle given to those of the other Series of Wrought iron passing around and riveted
     and kept revolving by the power of a steam at the parts marked D in Fig. 3 to the spiral 80
25 engine whereby a steam. boat may be pro plates in order to secure them more firmily
     pelled effectually notwithstanding any vari in their places. E E E is a strong Wrought
     ation in the draft of water.                     iron stay (better seen in Fig. 3) firmily bolt
         Description of the drauving No. 1 hereto ed to the Stern of the vessel, e, e, is a brass - 85
     attached.–Figure 1 represents a longitudi bearing fixed in the said stay E which bear
30 nal section of the Stern of a steam boat with ing carries the outer and enlarged end
     my improved propeller attached. A and B of the shaft a, a, a, the other end of the
     are two cylindersor broadhoops of Wrought shaft being carried by and Working
     iron supported by spiral arms or Spokes through a stuffing box F attached to the 90
    which will be explained hereafter-the hoop shaft b, b, b, which shaft is supported by a
35 A is attached to the axis a a a and the hoop strong cast iron framing G and plumber
     B to the axis b, b, b, which latter axis is made block g: C is a StuffingboX fixed to the stern
     hollow in order to admit the former to pass post to prevent the Water from: entering the
     through and work within it and both these vessel around the shaft b, b, b, which should 95
     axes   pass directly through the center of the work freely through the stern post. H and
40 stern post into the body of the vesSel. 1, 2, I are two broad cog Wheels Working together
     3, 4, 5 and 9, 10, 11, 12, 13 are thin metallic I being about one fifth larger than H and
     plates attached by rivets to the hoops A attached to the shaft b, b, b, and H being at
     and B the face of each plate being twisted tached to a crank Shaft II. L. M. Misanother.
45
    so   as to form a portion of a spiral plane Or crank Shaft attached to the shaft a a a by
    thread, the exact form of which Will be de the coupling box N. l. and m are cranks on
    termined and may be obtained by forming a the shafts L. and M. Supported by cast iron
    cylinder and coiling a thread or blade spir frames P P and plumber blocks or bearings
    ally around it on the principle exhibited by p. p p p. Q and R are also cranks on the
    the diagram represented in Fig. 2 in which shafts M MI and L. L. fixed at right angles 105
50 A. A. A represent a cylinder of equal diame to the cranks l and m. g and r are crank
    ter with the hoops A and B in Fig. 1. ja, a, pins and S a coupling link by which the
     a, a, a, a, a, a, are eight thin Spiral planes cranks Q and R are coupled together. T is
    or plates of the same width as the plates 1, 2, a connecting rod and U is a coupling link 110
55 3, 4, 5 and 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13 in Fig. 1, and
                                                      attached to the cranks l and m. This con
    coiled around the said cylinder A. A. A spir necting rod is to be connected in the ordi
    ally like the thread of a screw the coilsbeing nary manner to the piston rodzor beam of a


--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 4 OF 5 ---

   2                                          588

     steam engine the cylinder of which may be on which a hollow axle C of Wrought iron
     placed either vertically or horizontally is made to Work, both these axles B and
     across the vessel. Another connecting-rod C are supported by the flat arms a a which
     connected to another engine may be attached arms have eyes or bearings at D D in which
     to the crank pin g in a similar manner by the respective axles work. E is an aXle or 70
     which a more regular power will be commu upright shaft of wrought iron working
     nicated to the cranks and shafts m. M. and through the hollow stem, A. F is a crank
     ! L. It is evident that if motion be commu attached to the said upright shaft by a slid
     nicated to the cranks l and m the shafts L ing coupling box f and key a2. b, c, e are
10 and M must be turned around in one and the conical cog Wheels working- together and 75
     same direction and that therefore the shaft firmily fixed on their respective axles B, C,
      b, b, b, by means of the unequal cog Wheels E by which it becomes evident that if mo
     I and H will move in a contrary direction to tion be given to the upright shaft the axles
     the shaft a, a, a, and at a less Speed and at B and C, Will move in contrary directions.
| 5 the same time the broad hoops A and B With G, H, are two thin broad hoops of Wrought 80
     their spiral plates will move in contrary di iron, G being firmily fixed on the axle B and
     rections and at unequal velocities; it should H fixed on the hollow axle C. Each hoop
     be stated that when the cylinder A. and its is provided with a Series of Spiral planes
     plates 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 as viewed from the as described in the foregoing description of
20 vessel revolve to the left the vessel. Will be my improved propeller applicable to steam 35
     propelled forward and when moved to the navigation.             g and h. h are the spiral
     right the vessel will be backed. W. W is the Spokes also before described but which
     rudder divided into two parts held together Spokes in addition to their twisting or spiral
   . by two strong wrought iron stays V fixed form are here curved or bent outward in
25 one on each side having wide loops or bends order to give room for the flat arms a a of 90
     at v to admit of the free motion of the rud the hollow stem. In order to protect the
     der. Fig. 3 represents an end view of the - conical wheels as well as diminishing the
     broad hoops A with its spiral plates. e e e e friction which they would produce in pass
     are cross stays to give additional Strength ing through the water a drum P P P of
30 to the stay E. E. X. X. X. are the 3 wrought slight metal divided into three parts and 95
     iron spiral arms or spokes to the hoop A pointed toward the ends, is made to inclose
     before alluded to and constructed in manner all the gear work under Water, the central
    ...here shown in order to prevent the resist part of which drum, being fixed to the arms
     ance which would otherwise be presented by a a and the pointed ends or caps fixed to
35 them to the progress of the vessel. These the spokes of the propellers slits being made 100
     arms all meet in the center where they are for that purpose and a space of about one
     Welded to a boss Y which is afterward bored eighth of an inch left between the three parts
     to receive the shaft a, a, a, upon which it is in order to admit of a free and contrary
     firmly keyed by the keys 2 a 2. D DD DD movement of the propellers. Having thus
40 D DD are the angle pieces which join the described Fig. 6, representing the section of 105
     several pieces C C C C C C C C of the nar my propeller as applied to ships of War or
     row hoop that supports the Spiral plates on merchant vessels, I will now proceed to de
     the broad hoop. J. represents the ordinary scribe Fig. 4, showing the manner in which
     Water line.                  -                  it is attached. K. is a bracket of iron (bet
45
        And I, the said JoHN ERICssoN, do here ter seen at K K), it is firmily fixed to the 110
     by declare that the application of my pro stern for the purpose of carrying the pro
     peller represented in the annexed drawing peller, by means of the hollow stem Aland
     No. 2 and hereafter described will be highly its collars d d, the hollow stem being kept
     useful   either for ships of war or merchant in its place by the key k which is secured 115
50 vessels.              -                           to the bracket K by a slight chain. L. is
         Description of the draving No. 2-Fig. 4 a stay of Wrought iron, to keep the hollow
     represents a longitudinal section and Fig. 5 stem. A firmily in an upright position; and
     the plan of the stern of a vessel with my to receive and communicate the force of
     propeller    attached and Fig. 6 is a Section the propellers for which purpose it is at
55 showing the manner in which the requisite tached to the stern post by hinges on each 120
     contrary movement is obtained in the Said side of the rudder; its form Will be better
     application of my propeller. In order the seen at L. L, the rudder being made to work
     more clearly to describe the said application between l, l. and the fork M fitted to receive
      I will first describe this last mentioned Fig. the hollow stem A, which is kept in by a
     6, but previous to doing I have to state that key m. this being Secured to the stay by a 125
     similar letters of reference will be used to slight chain as shown in the drawing. N
     denote similar parts in all the figures. A is is a ring or collar around the upper part
     a hollow stem of wrought iron, to which are of the hollow stem A, having a strong loop
     Welded collars d d, and broad flat branches or eye at n. It is evident that by driving
     or arm a a. B is an aXle or shaft of steel out the keys n k and a and pushing down | 30


--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 5 OF 5 ---

