--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 1 OF 7 ---

No. 608,969.
               C. A. PARS ONS.
                                 Patented Aug. 9, 1898.
                       Ma,


--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 2 OF 7 ---

No. 608,969.                                             Patented Aug. 9, 1898.
                        C. A. PARSONS.
                    MARINE STEAM TURBINE.
                     (Application filed Mar. 4, 1898.)
(No Model.)                   se                                 3 sheets-Sheet 2.




 77zayzes.'                          A.22276.
                                         f2422.74 2a12-a                     ||
 azz247-                                        (s/          2
  (2%t-c-e-----e.                                                   a ar42for-veezzi:


--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 3 OF 7 ---

No. 608,969.      C. A. PARSONS.
                                                    Patented Aug. 9, 1898.
               MARINE STEAM TURBINE. .
                (Application filed Mar. 4, 1898.)
                                                           3 sheets-Sheet 3.


--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 4 OF 7 ---

          UNITED STATES PATENT OFFICE.
       CHARLES ALGERNON PARSONS, OF NEWCASTLE-UPON-TYNE, ENGLAND.
                                   MARINE STEAM - TURBINE.
           SPECIFICATION forming part of Letters Patent No. 608,969, dated August 9, 1898.
                            Application filed March 4, 1898, Serial No. 672,594, (No model.)
    To all tufuon, it may concern.
      Be it known that I, CHARLES ALGERNON ing    Nos.
                                                       purposes the steam shall flow through
                                                        1, 2, 3, and 4 compound engines in se
    PARSONS, engineer, a subject of the Queen of ries from
    Great Britain and Ireland, residing at Heaton exhaustingtheinto
                                                                 first to the last, the last turbine 55
                                                                    the condenser. For this pur
  5 Works, Newcastle-upon-Tyne, England, have pose      I  arrange   turbines Nos. 1, 2, 3, and 4
    invented certain new and useful Improve so that the capacity
    ments
    the    in Marine
        following      Steam-Turbines, of which cessively from one toorfour-that
                  is a specification.
                                                                            volume increases suc
                                                                                       is, generally
                                                  speaking,   the  capacity   of  No.  2  is greater
      My invention relates to marine steam-en than the capacity of No. 1, and so on through
 logines; and it is chiefly applicable to engines out the series. By this arrangement the
    of the steam-turbine class.
      My object is to SO arrange the engines and steam,
                                                  pands
                                                           practically speaking, continually ex
                                                          from   the moment of entering No. 1
    couple up the steam connections as to enable       until it finally discharges at the low-pres
     the engines to be operated more economically sure        end of No. 4 to the condenser. This
 I5 under all conditions of power and speed variation
     that is, my object is to enable the engines to by increasein incapacity    may be secured either
     operate with the maximum economy of steam four or by the increase in speed offrom
                                                                         actual dimensions       one to
                                                                                              rotation,
     per horse-power expended at low powers as a combination of both; also, each individ
     Well as at high powers and also at slow speeds or ual turbine of the series is preferably gradu
 2O as well as at high speeds. .
        In all modern engines of high economy the inlet in
                                                       ated     capacity, so that the turbines at the
                                                             end are smaller than those at the exit
     steam is expanded successively in a series of
     cylinders or engines, the first of which cylin end.
                                                       quired,
                                                               When greater power, however, is re
                                                                the pipe connections are so made that 75
     ders or engines takes steam directly from the the high-pressure         steam from the boiler is
 25 which
     boiler again
            and exhausts   into  the  next  cylinder,  admitted to the inlet of No. 1 and also to the
                   exhausts into the next, and so on inlet of No. 2 and passes from the exit of No.
    throughout the series. . .                         1 to the inlet of No. 3 and from the exit of
       I am aware that at present for mechanical No. 2 to the inlet of No. 4, then from the
     reasons the exhaust-Steam from one cylinder exit of Nos. 3 and 4 to the condenser, and
 3o is Sometimes caused to supply two low-pres thus          the steam flows through all four tur
    sure cylinders, so as to more nearly equalize binesin
    the Weight of the moving parts acting on the parallel.”what may be described as “compound
    several crank-shafts. I am aware also that Usually the compound-parallel coupling
    live steam is sometimes admitted to the low will be sufficient for most purposes; but in
35 pressure steam-chest directly from the boiler exceptional cases I may arrange the Valves
    for starting purposes, or for the purpose of so as to admit the high-pressure steam to each
    increasing the power of the engine under ex inlet        of Nos. 1, 2, 3, and 4 turbines and con
    ceptional conditions. My invention, how nect the             exit of each turbine to the conden
    ever, does not concern itself with such me ser. The coupling is then in simple parallel; 9o
4o chanical purposes as I have indicated.             but in such cases where great power is re
       My invention consists in new methods of quired
    arranging, proportioning, and operating a set bines soI that generally prefer to arrange the tur
    of steam-turbines so as to enable economy may suffice. the         I
                                                                          compound-parallel coupling
                                                                         may  also sometimes in cases 95
    to be maintained under widely-varying con where the boiler-pressure
45 ditions, such as occur in connection with ma-. arrange the valves so thathas        to be reduced
                                                                                    Nos. 1 and 2 shall
    rine Steam propulsion.
       In carrying my invention into effect-say be        in parallel and Nos. 3 and 4 in series, re
   to a case where four screw-shafts are used, also No.their
                                                      ceiving        steam from the exit of No. 2 and
                                                                 1. Such an arrangement might be OO
   each shaft being driven by a separate com
5o pound steam-turbine-I so couple these four used          to enable the boiler-pressure to be low
                                                      ered to atmospheric pressure when going into
   separate turbines by suitable valves and pipes action.
   that when reduced power is required for cruis In order that the expansion of the steam


--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 5 OF 7 ---

  2                                         608,969

  shall be properly distributed throughout the cured and different outputs of power more
                                               economically obtained than by the methods
   turbines under both conditions of working
   that is, either while Working in compound at present in use.
   parallel or in series-it is necessary, gener Isometimes prefer to make the turbine en
   ally speaking, as I have already described, gines in two or more distinct portions or banks
   to make the capacity increase from No. 1 of cylinders, and I then arrange the valves so
   throughout the series continually or by mod that the steam may be turned through either
   erate steps in the capacity. While operat portion or both or more portions, and under 75
   ing, however, at full power in compound par these circumstances the engines to which no
 O allel, the pressures delivered on the several steam is being supplied will preferably Work
   screw-shafts will not be equal. This, how in the vacuum of the condenser.
   ever, I meet by a small variation in the screws In the case of changing the course of the
   on the several shafts, and also sometimes by flow of steam through successive cylinders
   a modification of the capacities of the turbines with an engine of the turbine class the dis
   from the sizes most economical for series tribution may be so carried out as to receive
   working, which modification does not detract suitable drops in pressure, so as to secure a
   materially from their efficiency under either maximum efficiency under different speeds of
   arrangement of coupling.                         rotation.
       My invention may be varied; but the essen In carrying my invention into effect with
   tial features consist in so proportioning the reference to the accompanying three sheets
    number and form of turbines and so connect of drawings, Figure 1, Sheet l, shows a set of
   ing them by suitable valves and pipes that I eight turbines arranged for working on four
    am enabled to operate them economically screw-shafts, according to one part of my in
    either in series, the steam passing from one vention. Fig. 2, Sheet 2, shows a modifica
    to the other, or in compound or simple par tion of my invention having four main tur
    allel, the steam being Supplied to the high bine motors A, B, C, and D working on four
    pressure end of one, two, three, or four of shafts numbered 1, 2, 3, and 4. Fig. 3, Sheet
    the lot and discharged into the condenser or 3, shows another modification in which six 95
    the atmosphere through four or a less num turbines and three screw-shafts are used.
3O ber at the low-pressure end or ends of sepa         In Fig. 1, Sheet 1, is shown a form of my in
    rate turbines. Under the invention thus it vention having a set of eight turbines A A'
    is evident that the turbines may be placed in B B C C D D'arranged in banks and coupled IOO
    pairs on each of two screw-shafts instead of to four screw-shafts numbered 1, 2, 3, and 4,
    four, or three screw-shafts and six turbine two turbines on each shaft. Turbines A and
35 motors may be used.                              A" are coupled to shaft No. 1, turbines B and
       Four shafts and eight turbine motors may B' are coupled to shaft No. 2, turbines C and
    be used in this case if the shafts be num C are coupled to shaft No. 3, and turbines
    bered 1, 2, 3, and 4 and the motors A A' B D and D' are coupled to shaft No. 4. Tur
    B C C D D'. Then for series working the bines A, B, C, and D are of regularly-increas
    steam will pass through the motors in the or ing capacity from A to D, and the turbine
    der AA'B B C C D D' and for compound par blades on each of the respective motors are
    allel Working through A B C D in series from preferably of increasing capacity toward the IIO
    boiler to condenser and similarly through exhaust ends. Turbines A, B, C, and D'
    out A B C D'; also, from boiler to con are similarly graduated, but each of the lat
45 denser. Also further modifications may be ter set are preferably of somewhat larger
     made in the coupling for exceptional cases. capacity than the corresponding members of
     In such cases by a proper combination of the the first set. In the case of series Working
     turbine sets on each shaft a greater number the turbines may be connected in two ways. II5
     of different powers may be dealt with by suit In the first the main inlet-pipe P supplies
 So able combination of the turbines on the steam from the boilers, which then passes
     steam distribution and a greater degree of through turbine A and by Way of valve R'
     economy realized, especially so in the case of and pipe P to turbine A'. From Aitpasses
     large war-ships where the engines are re by valve R* and pipe P to the inlet end of
     quired to run with the greatest economy at turbine B, from turbine B by valve R* and
 55 various cruising speeds, as well as at full pipe P4 to turbine B', from turbine B' by
     power, as by means of a large number of sepa valve R. and pipe P to turbine C, from tur
     rate turbines of different sizes the power may bine C by valve Rand pipe P to turbine C',
     be varied within large limits, and at the same from turbine C' by valve R and pipe P to I 25
     time a large range of expansion in the tur turbine D, from turbine D by valve R and
     bines can be maintained under all circum pipe P8 to turbine D', and from turbine             D'
     stances.                                        by pipe P0 to the condenser E. In this ar
        From the description I have given it will rangement the valves R to R, inclusive, are
     be seen that by simply changing the connec closed.                         -
     tions between the engines or cylinders the In the second method of connecting for se
      steam is caused to flow through different suc ries working the steam passes from the boiler
     cessive cylinders or engines, by which differ to turbine A by the pipe P, from turbine A
     ent degrees of successive expansion are se by valve Rand pipe Q' to turbine B, from


--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 6 OF 7 ---

                                                   608,969.                                            3.
       turbine B by valve R and pipe Q to tur and T are opened and valves T, T, and T8
       bine A', from turbine A' by valve R18 and closed. The steam-pipe S" only is then used,
       pipe Q to turbine B', from turbine B' by and the condenser His cut off from the cir
       valve   R and pipe P to turbine C, from tur
    5 bine C by valve Rand pipe Q to turbine D, culating water, so that it becomesinoperative.
       from turbine D by valve R16 and pipe Q to The           course of the steam in this case will then
       turbine C", from turbine C' by valve R4 and pipe S"follows:
                                                          be  as             from boiler by valve T and
       pipe Q to turbine D', and from turbine D' S° and valve T to A,
                                                                   to turbine        from turbine A by pipe
                                                                                 turbine  B, from turbine B
       by pipe P to the condenser E. In this ar
   O rangement the valves R. R. R. R. R. R. R11 by pipe S to turbine D, from turbine D. 75
       Rare closed.                          ..    '      through condenser H, pipe S", and valve T
          In the case of compound-parallel working where  to turbine C, from turbine C to condenser G,
       the flow of steam is as follows: from the provided         it is finally condensed. Walve T is
       boiler by the pipe P' to turbine A, from tur the two sets      to enable the pressure admitted to
       bine A by valve R8 and pipe Q' to turbine B, working at full      of turbines to be equalized when
                                                                             power.
       from turbine B by valve R and pipe Q to T° and T are closed andFor                T
                                                                                            reversing valves
                                                                                            and T0 opened.
       turbine C, from turbine C by valve R10 and Thus steam is admitted by pipes
      pipe Q to turbine D, from turbine D by valve X, and from turbine X by pipesSto              S
                                                                                                     turbine
                                                                                                      to con
       R and pipes P and P0 to the condenser E, denser G, also by pipe S8 through turbine                  Y
      also from the boiler by way of the pipe P by pipe S9 to condenser H. One or both of
      through the turbine A', from turbine A' by these reversing-motors may be used, accord
      valve R and pipe Q to turbine B', from ing to the speed required in going astern.
      turbine B' by valve Rand pipe Q to tur The proportions of the internal parts of the
      bine C', and from turbine C' by valve R1 and turbine         motors depend largely upon the re 9o
      pipe. Q. to turbine D', and from turbine D' quirements
      by the pipe P to the condenser E. The is designed. ofThus            the service for which the ship
                                                                                  if economy at full speed .
      valves not mentioned in the above cases is of the utmost importance
      should
      mentS.
               be closed in the respective-
                                                arrange identical with turbine B andturbine       Ais made
                                                                                           similarly turbine
 3o Either of the sets A, B, C, and D or A, B', able     C identical with turbine D; but if it is desir 95
      C', and D' may be used independently. Any cruising      to secure a greater degree of economy at
      set not being used revolves freely in vacuum. and turbine     speeds then a compromise is made,
         Other combinations may be made, as will A, and similarly       B is made of larger capacity than
      readily be seen from the above description;                               turbine C is made larger -
 35 but the principle and mode of operation are than           D. In the same way the proportions of OO
                                                         the rows of turbines on each of the motors
     similar.
        In Fig. 2, Sheet 2, a set of turbines and con alongtheir
                                                         and
                                                               the
                                                                      graduation in size and capacity
                                                                     barrels  are regulated by the above
     nections are shown of about ten thousand col mentioned conditions,              which have to be met
     lective horse-power suitable for a fast vesselor in    each class of service.
     a torpedo-boat destroyer. In this modification
     four screw-shafts are employed, only two of ofInmyFig.         3, Sheet 3, is shown a modification
                                                                invention    in which three screw-shafts
     which are indicated in Fig. 2, numbered 1 and numbered 1, 2, and             3 are used, to which are
     4, and four turbines A B C D act thereon for coupled six motors, two             on each shaft, A and
     the usual forward driving; but for reversing
 45 two suitable turbine motors X and Y are A on shaft No. 1, B and B' on shaft No. 2, O
                                                        and C and C on shaft No. 3. In this group of
     shown, acting on the same shafts with the tur motors
     bines CD. These motors X and Y, when op                     I have made, for the sake of simplic
     erated, will drive their respective shafts in the ity,  turbines A, B, and C, each identically the
                                                        same as also A'B'C' exactly alike, but each
    reverse direction, thus propelling the vessel larger        than the members of the first set. EO II5
    astern. When these motors are not in use series working                the flow of steam would be as
    for reversing, they are suitably connected follows:            from    the   boiler by the pipe U to
    with the condenser, so that they will be run turbine A, from turbine                A by valve W' and
    ning freely in vacuum. When going full pipe               U  to  turbine   B, from  turbine B by valve
    power ahead, the turbine Atakes steam from
55 the main supply-pipe S". After partial expan W° and pipe U to turbine C, from turbine C.
                                                        by valve V8 and pipe U to turbine C', from
    sion in this motor it passes by the pipe S0 to turbine
    turbine C, where the expansion is completed, bine B', from    C by valve V and pipe U to tur
    and the steam passes thence to the condenser U to turbine turbine              B' by valve Wand pipe
    G. Similarly the turbine B takes steam from U, US, and U9 to the turbine
                                                                          A',  from            A' by pipes
                                                                                      condenser K. For I25
    the pipe Sand passes it on by Way of the pipe compound-parallel             working the flow of steam
    S' after partial expansion to the motor D, would be-first group:                from boiler by pipe U'
    which delivers it to the condenser H. The to turbine motor A, from                   motor A by valve
    motors thus arranged give full power ahead.
    For working at cruising speeds and therefore Wand           pipe U to motor A', and from motor
                                                       A by pipes U, US, and U9 to condenser K;
65 with reduced power the coupling-pipes Sand second
   S are utilized, and the connecting-valves T. W, and group:             from boiler by pipe U", valve
                                                                 pipe U to motor B, from motor B by


--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 7 OF 7 ---

                                          60 969
  valve V and pipe U14 to motor B', and from ple parallel or in compound parallel, sub 25
  motor B' by valve W9, pipes U1, U1, U8, and stantially as described.
                                                2. In combination, a plurality of screw
  Uto condenser K; third group: from boiler shafts,   plurality of turbines on the separate
   by pipe U to valve V, pipe U18, and valve shafts, pipe connections between the turbines
   V", and pipe U to motor C; from motor C
   by valve Wand pipe U to motor C', and from with       valves to connect them in series or in
   motor C" by valve V11 and pipes U1, U15, U16, on the shaftparallel,
                                                   compound
                                                                 of one
                                                                         and a reversing-turbine
                                                                        of the first-mentioned tur
   U, and Uto condenser K. For simple-par bines with pipe-and-valve
   allel working the steam flows from the boiler the said reversing-turbineconnections     thereto,
                                                                                running in vacuum
IO to the main parallel supply-pipes U19 U17
   and U18 U19 by means of the pipes U' and U. while      the first-mentioned turbines are run 35
   Each of the turbines A, B, and C is supplied 3. In combination,asthe
                                                   ning,  substantially     described.
                                                                                plurality of shafts,
   from pipes U", U, and U7, and each also
   exhausts into the condenser K. In the same the       plurality of turbines with pipe connec
   way each of the turbines A, B, and C' is tions        and a reversing-turbine connected with
                                                   one of the shafts and running in vacuum when
   supplied from pipes U, U1, and U19, and the         first-mentioned turbines are running, sub
   each exhausts into the condenser.
      Having thus described my invention, what stantially
                                                     In
                                                               as described.
                                                         witness  whereof I have hereunto set my
   I claim as new, and desire to secure by Letters hand in presence    of two witnesses.
    Patent, is
      1. In combination, a plurality of screw Witnesses: CIARES ALGERNON PARSONS,
    shafts, a plurality of turbines and the pipes
    and valves forming the connection between              GEORGE GREY,
    the turbines to couple them in series in sim           ABRAHAM BEURCK GOLDSBROUGH.
