--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 1 OF 2 ---

                          finiteh states at ent office.
ALFRED NOBEL, OF HAMBURG, GERMANY, ASSIGNOR TO JULIUS BAND
                          MANN, OF SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA.
                              Letters Patent No. 78,317, dated May 26, 1868.

                                    IMPROVED EXPLOSIVE COMPOUND,
                    Ebe Schibale referre is is these Setters gatent at taking part of the sauce,
                                                -me-shm-am

TO ALL WHOM IT MAY CONCERN:
     Be it known that I, ALFRED Nore.I., of the city of Hamburg, Germany, have invented a new and useful
Composition of Matter, to wit, an Explosive Powder                                                    .    ..   .
      The nature of the invention consists informing out of two ingredients long known, viz, tho explosive sub
ctance nitro-glycerine, and an inexplosive porous substance, hereafter specified, a composition. which, without
iosing the great explosive power of nitro-glycerine, is very much altered as to its explosive and other proper.
ties, being far more safe and convenient for transportation, storage, and use, than nitroglycerine.
      In general terms, my invention consists in mixing with nitro-glycerine a substance which possesses a very
great absorbent capacity, and which, at the same time, is free from any quality which will decompose, destroy,
or injure the nitro-glycerine, or its explosiveness.
     it is undoubtedly true, as a general rule, that nitro-glycerine, when mixed with another substance, pot
Besses less concentration of power than when used alone; but while the safety of the miner (to prevent leakage
into seams in the rock) prohibits the use of nitro-glycerine without cartridges, which latter must of course be
somewhat less in diameter than thc bore-holes which are to contain them, the powder herein described can be
tnade to form a semi-pasty mass, which yields to the slightest pressure, and thus can bc made to fill up the bore
hole entirely. Practically, therefore, the miner will have as much nitroglycerine in the same height of bore
hole with this powder as with nitroglycerine in its pure state.
     This is the real character and purpose of my invention; and in order to enable others skilled in the art to
which it appertains (or with which it is most nearly connected) to make, compound, and use the same I will .
proceed to describe the same, and also the manner and process of making, compounding, and using it, in full,
clear, and exact terms.
    The substance which most fully meets the requirements above mentioned, so far as I know or have been
able to ascertain from numerous experiments, is a certain kind of silicious earth or silicic acid, found in various
parts of the globe, and known under the several names of silicious marl, tripoli, rotten-stone, &c. The par
ticular variety of this material which is best for my compound is homogeneous, has a low specific gravity, great
absorbent capacity, and is generally composed of the remains of infusoria.
     So great is the absorbent capacity of this earth, that it will take up about three times its own weight of
taitroglycerine and still retain its powder-form, thus leaving the nitroglycerine so compact and concentrated
as to have Yery nearly its original explosive power; whereas, if another. substance, having a less absorbent
capacity, is used, a correspondingly less proportion of nitro-glycerine will be absorbed, and the powder be cor
respondingly weak or wholly inexplosive.
    For example, most chalk will take but about fifteen per cent, of aitro-glycerine and retain its powder-form.
 wenty per cent. will reduce it to a paste.
    Porous charcoal has also a considerable absorbent capacity, but it has the defect of being itself a combus
tible material, and also of less elasticity of its particles, which renders it easy to squeeze out 8 part of its
nitroglycerine.
     The two materials are combined in the following manner:
     The esrth, thoroughly dried and pulverized, is place in a wooden vessc. To it is introduced the nitro
glycerine in a steady stream go small that the two ingredients can be kept thoroughly mixed.
     The mixing may be effected by the naked hand, or by any proper wooden instrument used in the hand, or
by wooden machinery
     Sufficient of nitroglycerine should be used to render the compound explosive, but not so much as to change
ite form of powder to a liquid or pasty consistency.
    Practically, about sixty parts, by weight, of nitro-glycerine to forty of earth, forms the useful minimum,'


--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 2 OF 2 ---

                                                                                                                 5,317

     and seventy-eight parts, by weight, of nitro-glycerie to twenty-two of earth, the useful maximum of explosive
     power. The former has a perfectly dry appearance, the latter is pasty.
          Between these two extremes the composition will be explosive powder, and it will be moro easily exploded,
     and its explosive power greater, as the relative proportion of the nitro-glycerine is greater.
          The proportions, by weight, of seventy-five of nitro-glycerine to twenty-five of earth, gives a powder as
     well adapted to ordinary practical purposes as that from any proportions I am now able to nine, and ean tre:
     easily compressed to a specific gravity nearly equal to. that of pure nitro-glycerino.                   -
          When the mass has been intimately nixed and thoroughly incorporated by stirring and kneading, it is
     rubbed through a hair, silk, or brass-wire siéve, (iron corrodes,) and any lumps which may remain are rubbed
     with a stiff-bristle brush till they are reduced and made to pass through the sieva.
        . The powder is then finished and ready for use.
          The fineness desired for the powder wiii determine the finences of the sieye to ba 1sed. . .    . ..
          The chief characteristic of this powder is its nearly perfect exemption from liability to accidental or
     involuntary cxplosion.                                  w
          It is far less sensitive than nitro-glycerine to concussion or percussion, and contained in its usual packing,
     (a wooden cask or box,) the latter may be smashed completely to pieces without any danger of an explosion.
          Unlike gunpowder, in the open air or in ordinary packing, (a wooden cask or box,) it burns up, when set
     fire to, without exploding. It can, therefore, beharidled, stored, and transported with less danger than ordinary
     gunpowder.
          When confined in a tight and strong enclosure it explodes by heat applied in any form, when above the
     temperature of 360° Fahrenheit. Under all other circumstances it may be exploded by some other explosion
     in it or into it.
          The most simple and certain method known to me of exploding it is as follows:
         The end of a common blasting-fuse is inserted into a percussion-cap, and the rim of the cap crimped tightly
     and firmly about the fuse by nippers, or other means, so as to leave the fulminating-powder of the cap and th
     end of the fuse tightly and firmly enclosed together. The end of the fuse, with the cap attached, is 'thel.
    embedded in the powder-the more firmly, the more certain the explosion.
         In blasting, the powder is pressed tightly about the cap and fuse, and tamping, of sand or other proper
    material, added, and pressed but not pounded in. A damping finally pressed is as good as if rammed in the
    most solid manner.
         The fuse explodes the cap, and this explosion explodes the powder.
         I will add here that by carefully packing the end of a good fuse amidst the powder of a charge enclosed,
    iikc' a blasting charge, in a tight place, the fuse alone will explode the powder, especially if the powder is
     strongly charged with nitro-glycerine. But this method of explosion requires too much care, and is too uncer
    tain to be depended upon or generally used.                           -
         As before stated, the more strongly the powder is charged with nitro-glycerine the more easily it explodes.
    If, therefore, the powder contains a low proportion of nitro-glycerine, it is necessary to employ in its explosion
    a correspondingly long, strong, and heavily-charged percussion-cap, made especially for the purpose. For the
    sake of certainty of explosion it is better to use such a cap in all cases.
         If the fire from the fuse cornes in contact with the powder before the cap is exploded, which is liable to
    occur if the fuse is leaky and the cap extends too far into the powder, a portion of the powder will.be burned
    before the explosion takes place. To guard against this, the cap should only be fairly inserted into the powder,
    and poor fuses wound next to tho cap firmly with strong glued paper or hemp, or otherwise secured.
        The bore-holes, as a practical but not absolute rule, should be about one-half the size, and the charge
    should be from one-fifth to one-tenth the quantity ordinarily used in gunpowder-blasting.
        A very convenient form in which to use the powder is to pack it firmly in cartridges of strong paper.
        Having thus described my invention, what I claim as new, and desire to secure by Letters Patent, is
        The composition of matter, made substantially of the ingredients and in the manner and for the purposes
    set forth.                                                                               ALFRED NOBEL.
        Witnesses:
                 FR. T. PRoll ME,
                 HELNB, BARTETSSEN




N
