--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 1 OF 10 ---

    No. 821,393.
                                                PATENT-ED MAY 22, 1906.v
                      ' 0. & w.. WRIGHT.
                       FLYING MACHINE.
                   APPLICATION 21mm MAR; 23, 1903.
                                                          3 SHEETS-SHEET 1.




)% lV/TNESSIFS:


                                                          ATTORNEY.


--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 2 OF 10 ---

No. 821,393.     '          ‘               PATENTED MAY 22, 1906.
                     0. & W. WRIGHT.
                     FLYING MACHINE.
               APPLIOATION TILED MAE-23, 1903.




                                                                       30




                                                             01815:;

                                                  Walla)» W335i“


--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 3 OF 10 ---

            'No. 821,393.                    _
                                                          PATEN'IED MAY 22, 1906.
                      ‘          0. & W. WRIGHT.‘
                                FLYING MACHINE.
                            APPLICATION FILED MAR. 23, 1903.
                                                                    3 SHEETS~SHEET 3.




rll ll lL
             _W1TNESSES:                                             INVENTORS .
                                                               0rvz'lla Wright“.
                                                        .B     Willi ur   lf’rg'yif.

                                                                     ATTORNEY


--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 4 OF 10 ---

                  UNITED STATES PATENT OFFICE.
                  ORVllilJE “"lilGrllT AND “'lliBLllt “'RlGll'l‘. OF DAY'l‘UX, OlllU.
                                                       '       FLYING-MACHINE.
          No. 821.393.                                     ?peci?catiqn of‘Lettera Patent. '                    ‘.Eatented May 22, 1906.
                                                    Application ?1_ad'Mai-ch"28,190§- Serial No. 149.220;
       To a,” 1i'/i.(:1,'1-_ if may concern; ._                    _       ~ I
          Be'it knownthat we; ORVILLE WRIGHT; ous  disturbing" forces which tend to shift
                                              the machine. from the position whichit should
   > 1 and WILBUR Wmen'r, citizens of-the United occu y-to ‘obtain the desired results. It is
       States, residing in the city of Da ton, county
  - n of Montgomery, and State of .0 no, have in the c, of object of our invention to provide 60
       _vented_ certain new and useful Improvements‘.
                                                       means. for remedying this difficulty, and we
       in F lying-Machines, of which the following is' willmeans
                                                            now proceed to describe the construction
                                                                  of which these results are accom
       as   eciiicat'ion;   -   >       .       ‘
                                                                                   p ished..      '         '               "
          ur invention rélatesto that class of fly [Int-he accompanying drawings we ‘have
     ing-machizms-n-r which the weight is sustained ‘ shown  an apparatus embodyingonr invention
    ‘by the reactions resulting when one ‘or more
     aeroplanes are moved throuv'h the air eds'e- .   in one   form. In this illustrative embodi-'
    wise-at a_ small angle of. incidence, ~either y ment    the machine is shown as comprising.
                                                      two parallclsuperposed aeroplanes 1 and 2,‘
     the application of mechanical power or by and        this construction‘we prefer, although our
    the uti ization of the force, of gravity.         invention ma be. embodied in a structure
       The objects of our invention are to provide having     a_ sing e aeroplane. Each aeroplane
    ‘means for maintaining or restoring the equi- is of considerablygreater       width from side'to
    librium, or lateral balance of the apparatus, side than from, front- to rear. . The four cor
    to’ rovide means for guidin‘r'the machine ners of the .up )er aeroplane are indicated by
 20
    hot- 1 vertically and horlzontall Y, and to pro the reference-letters a, b, c, and d, while the
      vide a structure combining lightness, strength;
      convenience of "construction, and certain 2corresponding    corners of the lower aeroplane
      other advantagesnvhich‘ will hereinafter ap g, are indicated" by the reference-"letters e,df,
                                                      and h. The marginal lines a b and e f in i~
 25
      pear.   '                     -   v   a


         To thesejends our invention consists in cer
                                                    cate the front ‘edges of the aeroplanes, the 80
                                                           ;           I    _



                                                    lateral margins'of the upper aeroplane are inm
    ' tain novel features, which we will-now pro~ dicated, res actively, by the lines a d‘aud b
      ceed to describe and‘ will then particularly c, "the lateral) margins of‘ the lower aeroplane
   . point out in the claims. .
                                                    ‘are indicated, respectively, by the .linese h
       . In the accompanying drawings‘, Figure 1 is and f 9, while the rear margins of the upper
      a perspective view of an a paratus embody andlower aeroplanes are indicated,‘respec~' 85
      '‘mg our.invention in one orml. Fig. 2 isa                                  tively, by the lines 0 d and g h.              - 4       -
      plan-view of the same, partly in horizontal‘         Before proceeding to a description of the
      section andpartly bro] en away. Fig. 3 is a fundainental theory of operation ‘of the struc- -
      side elevation,‘ and Figs. (1 and 5 are detail ture we will ?rst describe the preferred mode
7 Ass views, of one formof ?exible j oin't'forconnect-y of constructing the aero lanes and those por~
      in" the upright standards with the aeroplanes. ' itions of the structure wliich serve to connect
        in il ‘mg-machines- ofi'the character to                                  the two aeroplanes.              .                   1   .
      which t is invention relates the apparatus is                                 Each aeroplane is formed‘ by ‘stretching
      supported in the air b reason of t e contact cloth or other suitable fabric overea frame
                                                                                               95
      between the air and. tie. under surface of one _ composed of two parallel transverse spars 3,
      or more aeroplanes, the contact-surface'be                                 extendind‘from side to'sidc of the machine,‘
      ing presented at a small angle of incidence to                             their ends being connected by bows 4, ex
      the air. The relative movements of the air                                 tending from frontlto rear of the machine..."
      and aeroplane ma be derived from the ino—                                  The'front and rear spars 3 of each .‘a‘ero ,lan'e
      ticn of the air in t _e form-cf wind blowing in                            are connected ,by a. series of parallel ri s 5,
      the direction. opposite to ‘that in which the which preferably eittend somewhat, beyond.
      apparatus is traveling ‘or by . a combined                                 the rear spar, as shown.              These spars,'b0'ws'
      downward and forward movement of the ma                                    and ribs are preferably constructed. of ‘wood
      chine, as in starting from an elevated                               osi-_ ' havin   the -nec_essarv strength? combined
      tion' or by combination of, these two things, with xlightness‘ and flexibility. _ ,Upon this
      and in either case‘the operation is¢that of a ‘framework the-"cloth ‘which forms the sup‘
      soaring-machine, while power ap lied to the "porting-surface of the aeroplane. issecured,
      machine to propel it positively orward will the frame being inclosed 1n the cloth._,_ The-
      cause the air to support the machine in asmu-~ cloth for each aeroplane previously to its at-v
      lar manner. Ineithcr case owing to the va                                  tachment to its frame is cut on the bias and
      rying conditions to be met thereare numer                                  made up into a single-‘piece approximately


--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 5 OF 10 ---

     2.                                          senses

     the sizeiancl‘ shape of the aeroplane, having I 'direotidn or the other, the cradle being mov
     the threads of the fabric arranged-diagonally able toward either side of-the machine. . We
     to the transverse spars and lonlgltudinal ribs, have   devised        cradle as a convenient
     as_indicated"at '6 in Fig. 2:     us the dlagf means for operatingthe rope'15, and the
     o'nal threadsof the cloth form truss systems machineis intended‘ to be generally used with 70'
     with the spars and ribs‘, the threads‘ const‘igv the-operator lying face downward on the
     ,tuting‘ the diagonal members.‘ A: hem 1s ‘lower aeroplane, with‘ his‘head to the front,
     _ formed at the rear edge of the cloth to receive‘ so that the operator’s body rests on the era
     a ‘wire .-7,, which is connected to the-ends ofi ‘dle, and the cradle can be moved laterally
     the- rear spar and supported b ‘the rear -the movements of the operator’s body.              75
     wardly-extending ends of the ongltudlnal will beunderstood,jhowever, that the ‘rope 15
     ribs 5, thus formin. a rearwardly-extendmg may be manipulated in any-suitable manner.
     flap-or portion of t e aeroplane. This con       19.indicates a second rope extending tra'ns-.
     struction of the aeroplanes gives a surface versely .of'themachine along the rear edge of‘
     which has very great strength to withstand.. the body portion .of the lower aeroplane, pass .80
     lateral and longitudinal strains, at the'same ‘ing under suitable pulleys'or guides 20 at the
     time being capable of being bent or twisted rear corners g .and h of the lower aeroplane,
     in the manner hereinafter described.            _ and extending thencediagonally upward to
       ’ When two aeroplanes'are employed, as in       the front corners a," and b of the upper aero
     the construction illustrated, they are‘ con plane, where its ends are secured ln'anysum
     nected together 'by‘ 11 right ‘standards 8'. ‘ able manner, as indicated at 21. _
     These standards are, su stantially rigid, ‘be    Consideringthe structure so far as we have
     ing preferably constructed of wood and of now' described it and assuming that -.the
            length, equally spaced along the front’ ‘cradle 18 be .-II_l_0V6d to the right in  1 and
     and rear ‘edges of the aeroplane, to which v2, as indicated by the ‘arrows applied to the 90
     they are connected at their top and bottom cradle in'Fig‘. _1 and by. the dotted lines in
     ends by hinged joints or universal joints of' Fig. -2, it will-be seenjahat that portion of the
     any suitable description. '_We have shown. rope 15 passing under the guide-pulle at the
     one form ofpconnection which may be-used comers‘ and'secured to the .wrner'. will be
     for this purpose in Figs.‘ 4 and 5 of the draw under ‘tension, while slack *is ’ paid .Iout
    _ ings.In this construction each end of the ' throughout ‘the, other ‘side .or half o the rope
     standard 8 has secured to_'it an eye 9, which 15. The .partof the rope15 ‘under tension '
   ' engages with a hook 10,.secured to a bracket     exercises a'downw'ard pull. upon the rear up
     plate 11, which latter plate is‘ in turn fas      per comer'd of the structure and an upward '
     tened to the spar 3.- Diagonal braces or sta ' pull u on the front lower corner e     indi
     wires 12 extend from each end of each stan - cated y the arrows. Y This causes‘ the corner
   . ard to the opposite ends 'of the adjacent (I to move downward and the. corner e/to' move
     standards, and as a convenient -mode of at       "upwardQ _As'.the corners moves upward- it
     taching these parts I have showna hook 13 carries the \corner a 'u ward with. it, since‘ the
     ‘made integral with the hook 10 to receive intermediate standard1 8. is substantially- rigid r05 '
     the endo one of the stay-wires, the‘other and maintains an-equal distance between the
     stay-wire being- mounted on the hook 10. 'cornersla and e at all times. Similarlyythe
     The hook 13 is shown as bentd'own to retain ‘standard 8, connecting the corners dand It,
     the stay~wire in connection to it, while the causes the corner It to move downward in uni
      hook 10 is shown asfprovided with a pin 14 son with the corner ‘d. Since the corner .41 IIO
      to hold the stay-wire 12 and eye 9 impositionv ‘thus moves upward and-‘the corner h moves
      thereon. It will‘be seen that this construc downward, that “portionof the‘rope 19'con-'
      tion fo'rms a truss system which gives the nectedto thecorner a will be pulled upward ' V
      whole machine great transverse ri ldity and through the pulley 20 at' the corner h, and the
  5-0 strength, while at the same time the jointed 'pull ‘thus exerted ‘on the rope. 19 will pull the 115
      connections of the parts permit the aero corner 6 onthe other. side of the machine
      planes to be bent or twisted in-the manner‘ downward and at the same time pull the cor
      Wll1Gl1_W8_-Wlll now proceed to describe. ‘    l ner at said other side of themachine‘up
         15 indicates a rope or other ?exible con—v war ;_ ‘This results in adownward movement
.55 nection extending lengthwise of the front of 4 of the‘ corner b and an‘upward movement of
      the machine above the lower aero lane,‘ pass the corner 0. Thus it results from a lateral
      mg under pulleys or other suitable guides 16, movement of the cradle 18'to the right in
    - at the front-corners e and f 0f the .lower aero Fig. that the lateral margins a d and e k at
      plane, and extending thence upward and
  60 rearward to the‘ upper rear cornerst and d1 one side of the machine are moved from their
                                                       normal positions, in whichthey-lie in thenor
      of the upper aeroplane, where they are at-v mal planesof theirre‘spective aeroplanes, into. '125'
  - : tached, as indicated at 17. To the central angular relations withsaid-normal- planes, .
   7 portion of this rope there is connected a lat
     orally-movable cradle'l8, which ,forms a each           lateral margin on this side of- the ma
 .65 means for moving the rope lengthwise in one _' . vits
                                                      chine being=ra|sed above said normal plane at
                                                           forward end and depressed below- said not'-.


--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 6 OF 10 ---

                                                        821,893                                              a       i


       mal plane at its rear end, said later'al margins -
       being thus inclined upward and forward. At eral        margins on the'opposite sides of the ma-V
                                                          chine are equal in'extent and op ositc in di
      the same time a reverse inclination is impart rection, yet our invention is not limited to a
      ed to the lateral mar 'ns be and f g at the construction Iproducing this result; since it
       other side of the mac ' e, their inclination may be desira le under certain circumstances
       being downward and forward. These posi                                                        70
                                                       to move the lateral margins on oncsidc of the -
       tions areindieated in dotted lines in'Fi . 1 of machine in the manner just dcscrihcdswith
       the drawings. A movement of the era le'18 out moving the lateral-margins on the ‘other
       in the opposite direction from its normal po; side of the machine to an equal extent in the
 10   sition Wll reverse the.angular inclination of opposite direction. Turning now to the pur 75
      the lateral margins ‘of the aeroplanes in. an pose of this revision for moving the lateral
      obvious manner. By reason of this con margins of .t e aeroplanes in the manner do
      struction it will be seen that with the particu scribed,_it should be promised that owing to
      lar mode of construction now under consider various conditions of wind-pressure and other
      ation it is possible to move the forward corner causes the body of the machine is apt to be~
      of the lateral edges of the aeroplane on one come unbalanced laterally, one side tending
      side of the machine either above or below the to sink and the other‘side tending to rise, the
     normal planes of the aeroplanes, a reverse‘ machine turningaround its central longitu-_
     movement of the forward-corners of the lat dinal axis. The ' rovision which we have
 20 eral marginson the other side of the machine
                                                      just described ena les'the operator to meet 85
     occurring simultaneously. _ During this op this difficulty and preserve the lateral hal
     erati on each aeroplane is twisted or distorted .anee of the machine.“ 'Assuming that for .
     around a line extending centrally across the ,some cause that side of the machine which
     same from the middle of one lateral margin to lies to the left of the'observer in Figs; 1 and 2
 25 the middle of the other lateral margin, the has'shown a tendcnc' to dro downward, a
     twist due to the moving of the lateral mar movement of the era‘ e 18 to t e right of said
   . gins to different angles extending across each ?gures,v as-hereinbefore assumed, will move
     aeroplane from side to side, so that. each aero the lateral margins ofthe aero lanes in the
     plane-surface is- given a helicoidal warp or manner already described-,so t at the mar
 30 twist. We prefer this construction and gins a d and‘ e ‘h will be inclined downward 95
     mode of operation for the'reason that it- 'ves and rearward and the. lateral margins 11 c and
     a gradual y-increasing angle to the b         of fg will-be inclined upward and rearward with
      each aeroplane from the central longitudinal respectto the normal lanes ofthebodies of the
      ‘line thereof outward to the ma " , thus giv         aeroplanes. -' With t e parts of the machine
      ing a continuous, surface on see side of the in-this position it will be seen that the lateral‘ I00
      machine,,which has a " ually increasing or margins a d and e h present a larger angle of
      decreasing angleof incidence from the center incidence to the resisting air, while the lat
      of the machine to either. side. We wish it to 'eral margins on the other-side of the machine
      be understood, however, that our invention is present a smaller angle of incidence. Owing
40 not limited to this particular construction,            to this fact, the side of the machine present         105         '
      since-any constructionswhereby the angular ing the larger angle of incidence will tend to
   relations of the lateral margins of the aero lift or move upward, and ‘this upward move
   planes may be varied in op site directions ment will restore the lateral balance of the
   withirespeet to the "normalwplanes of said machine. ‘When the other side of'the ma~
45 aeroplanes comeswithin~ the sco of our in chine tends to drop, a movement of the cradle
   vention. "Furthermore, it she d be-under 18 in the reverse direction will restore the
   stood that while the lateral margins of the machine to its normal lateral equilibrium.
   aeroplanes; move to different a              Of course the-same effect will be produced 1n
      lions with respect to. or above an below the ‘the same way in the caseof a machme employ- ‘
50 normal. planes of said aero lanes it does not i             onl   asi' 1e aero lane. '\    _ v        _
     necessarily follow‘ that- t ese movements “in chfnnecltlion wit the bed of ‘the ma
     bring the opposite lateral I to different chine as thus operated we emp oy a vertical
     angles respectively above an below a4hori-_ rudder‘ or, tail 22, so 'su orted.as to ‘turn
     zontal plane, since the normal planes of the around a vertical axis. his rudder is sup
55   bodies of the aeroplanesiare inclined to the 'p orted at the rear ends of supports or'arms X20
                                    .i   ,   ,      .

     horizontal when. the machine is 111 ?1ght,'S9-1d 23,>pivoted at their forward ends‘ to the rear
     inclinationbeing downward from front to rear, margins of the upper and lower aero lanes,
     and while the forward corners on one side or’ 1‘            tively. These supports are pre erably
     the machine ma be de ressed below the nor               -shaped,  as shown,- so that then‘ forward '
60 mal planes of t e bodies of the aero lanes              ends are comparatively widely sigparatéd,      125
      "    e
               ression is not necessaril su?icient to '    their pivots being indlcated at 24'.      _
                                                                                                    aid sup-     .       -
     carry t em below the horizonta ‘planes pass           ports are free to‘ s,   ‘ ' ‘upward at their free
 ' ing through ‘the rear corners on that-side;v '3,
                                                'reartheir
                                                       ends as indicate in dotted lines in
     Moreover, although we prefer to, so ‘construct                  downward movement being limited
65 ' the apparatus that the movements of the lat-. in any ‘suitable manner. ' The vertical pivotsv 130


--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 7 OF 10 ---

        4..                                                  ‘ senses

      "of the‘ rudder 22 are indicated at 25, and one ward-from theflower‘aeroplane, and struts 29
      I ‘of ‘these pivots has mounted thereon a sheave extend downward, and forward from: the cen
        or seller.   '26-, around which passes a 'tiller-_ tral portion of theupper'aeroplane, their
                                   ,.        _   i       .
        rope‘27,-‘the ends of which are extendedout front ends be' unit6 to'the struts 28'. thB'
      5 laterally and secured to the rope 19 on .oppo              forward extremities of which are turned up, 70
       -site sides of the central point of said rope._ as‘indicated at .30. These struts 28 and 29
        By, reason ‘of' this construction thellateral form truss-skids projecting in front‘ of ‘the
        shifting of the ci‘adle‘ 18 serves to turn the. whole frame of the machine and serving to
        rudder ‘to one side or‘ the. other'of the line of =preveiitf the machine from rolling over for-j
  lo ?ight. - It will be observed in this connection ward when it alights. _ The struts 29 serve to
     .that the construction isrsuch that the rudder brace the upper portion'of' the main frame _
     will‘always be so turned as to resent       re and resist its tendency to move forward
      sisting-surface on that side of t e machine on after the lower aero" lane has been sto ped
        which the lateral mar ins of theaeroplanes by its contact with t e earth, thereby relev
  15 present the least anjge of resistance.                  The ing therope 19 from unduestrain, for it wi-llbe
        reason of this construction is that when the understood that when the machine comes
       lateral margins of the aeroplanes are so turned into contact with the earth further forward
  .  in the manner hereinbefore described as to ‘movement of the lower portion thereof being
   - present different aifles of incidence to the - suddenly ‘arrested the inertia of the upper
  20 atmosphere that $1' e resenting'the lar est portion wouldltend to cause it to‘continue to
      ' angle of incidence, alt , ou'gh bem          lifte    or ‘move forward‘if not prevented by the struts _
        movedupward in ‘the manner a ready de                      29, andthis forward movement of the upper _
        scribed, at the same time meets with an in portion would ‘bring 'a very ‘violent strain
     creased resistance to its forward motion, and upon the rope 19, since it is fastened to the
 .35 is therefore retarded in'its forward “motion, upper port-ion'at both of its ends, while" its
     while at the same time the other side of the lower 'portion is connected by the guides 20
        machine, presentin a smaller angle of. inci                to-the ‘lower -portion._ The struts 28 and 29 - ' i
         dence, meets with es's resistance toits for-' also serve to support the front or horizontal -_
       - ward motion and tends tomove forward-more rudder, the construction ‘of which >we will
 33.0 rapidly than the retarded side. This gives.                  now proceed to describe.    9        ‘   -
                                                                     The front rudder 31 is a horizontal. rudder
        the machine a tendency to turn around its
      ~ vertical axis,.fand this tendency if not prop-" having a flexible body, the same consisting of
        ,erly met will not vonlylfuiiliang'e-the direction of three stiff cross-pieces or sticks 32, 33, and 34, -
         the front of the mac ' e, but-will ultimately and the ?exible ribs 35,=connecting- said cross-_ .
  as permit one side thereofto drop into ‘a posi- , ieces andextendin from front to rear. , The 'i do
     tlon vertically below the “other side with the ' ame thus provid is'coveiéed by‘ a suitable
       aeroplanes in vertical           sition, thus causing fabric stretchedv over the same‘ to form the
      the machine to fall. . The movement of the body of‘the rudder. ' The rudder is supported.
      rudder hereinbefore described prevents --this from the struts 29 by meansiof the interme
  40 action, since it exerts-a retarding in?uence on diate cross-piece 32, which is located near the 105
      that side of'the machine which tends to move center of pressure sl' htly in front of a line
    - forward too rapidly and keeps the machine e uidistant between t e front and rear ed es
        with its front properl presented-to the direc-' 0 the rudder, the cross-piece 32 forming iilie
        tion of ?ight. and wit its body properly'bal~ pivotal axis of the rudder, so asto constitute
'45I The
     anced-'_.around-
            ivoting ofitsthe
                           central
                             supports 23 so as to per 'a, balanced rudder. ' To the'front edge of the
                                   longitudinal
                                                      rudder there are connected springs 36; which
        mitt em to swing upward prevents in'ury to' SPUII   are connected to the upturned ends ,
     the rudder and its supports in case t e ma'e ~30 o ~~the struts 28, the construction being
    ‘chine alights at such an angle as to cause the" such that said springs tend‘ to resist any
  50 rudder to_ strike therground. ?rst, the'par'ts' movement either upward or downward of the"
     yielding upward; as indicated in dotted lines front edge of the horizontal rudder. ,Thc ‘
       _in Fig. 3, and thus preventing injury or rear edge vof the rudder lies immediately in
  > .breakage. We wish- it to be understood, front of the operator and ‘may be operated by ;
. ,- -however, that ‘we do not limit ourselves to                  him in any suitable‘ manner. vWe have
  $5‘- the particular description of rudder setforth, shown a‘ mechanism for this pu osecom _I so
  ‘ "-‘the essential beinv that the rudder" shall be prising a roller or shaft 37, whic _may be
     .. vertical and _shal -;be so‘ moved as to pre-. grasped by the operator so as to~turn~the
   .. sent its resisting-surface on that side of'the same in either direction. Bands 38fextend
        machine which offers the least 'resistance to from the roller: 37 forward to and around a ‘
  to- the' atmospherei- so ‘as to counteract the tend~~ similar roller or shaft 39, both rollers 01‘ shafts 125
       ency of the m _ ' e to turn around a verticalp     being supported in suitable bearings on the .
       ‘8.108 when ‘the two sides thereof offer different struts 28. The forward roller or shaft has
   I _ resistances to, the air. .;          .             rearwardly~eirtending arms 40, which are
     ~ . . Eromthe central portion of the front of the connected’ by links 41 with the rear edgev of
. '65'majchine struts 28 extend horizontally for--_ the rudder 31._ The normal position of the


--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 8 OF 10 ---

                                                    $21,393                                                            5
     rudder 31 is neutral or substantially parallel
     with the aeroplanes 1 ‘and 2; but its rear   shown in the accompanying drawings, as it
     edge may be moved upward or downward, so     is obvious that these details may be modi?ed ‘
     asto be above or below the normal plane of   wit 'put departing from. the principles'of our
   VI ‘said rudder through the mechanism'provided invention. For instance, while we prefer the _
                                                  construction illustrated in which each aero
      for that pur ose. ,Itwill .be seen that- the plane is given ‘a twist along
     springs 36 W] I resist any tendency of’thefor in order to set its 0 posits its entire length -
     ward edge of the rudder‘to move in either di                                  lateral margins at
     rection, so that when force is applied to the different    angleswe ave already pointed out
                                                     that our‘ invention is not limited to this form
  10
     rear edge of said rudder thelongitudinal ribs ‘of   construction, since it is only necessar to 75
     35 bend, and the rudder thus resents a conq-v move     the lateral marginal portions, and w ,iere
     cave surface to. the action of t e wind either
     above or below its normal plane, said surface '11these portions alone are moved only those
                                                        right standards which support the mov
     presenting a small angle of incidence at its -a le ‘portion require ?exible connections at
      orward portion and said an le of incidence        ‘their ends.   '   '   "   '                       '   v       '

     rapidly increasin toward t e rear.- T 's           Having thus fully‘ described our invention,
    greatly increases the ef?ciency of the mid er ‘what we claim as new, anddesiré to secure
    as com ared wi'th‘a planesurface of equal           by Letters Patent, is—-            ‘ '                     '
    area.   y regulating the ressure on the up;  1. 11m a flying-machine,v a‘ normally ?at
 20
    per and lower sides of t e rudder through
    changes of angle and curvature in the man capa leaneof"having
                                              aerop)              lateral marginal portions 85
                                                           movement ‘to different positions
    ner    escribed a turning movement of the above or blow the normal plane of the body
    main' structure around, its -‘_ transverse axis     of the-aeroplane, such movement being about
    may be effeoted,and the course of the machine       an axis transverse to, the line of ?ight, where
 25 may thus be directed upward or downward
    at the will of the o erator and the longitudi
                                                         by ‘said lateral marginal portions may be
   nal balance thereofl maintained.
                            '              .           ‘
                                                         moved to different angles relatively to the
                                                 .normal plane of'the body of the aero lane,
      Contrary to the usual custom, we place the so as to resent to the atmosphere di erent
   horizontal rudder in front of the aeroplanes. angles ofhncidence, and means for so mov
 30 at anegative angle and employ no horizontal
    tail at all.   Byt ' is arrangement we obtain‘ a
                                                        in said ,lateral marginal portions, substan 95
                                                        ti?ly'as described.            ‘         ~   . 3
    forward surfacewhich is almost entirely free          .2. In a ?ying-machine, the combination,
  , from‘ pressure underordinary conditions of‘ with two normally parallel aeroplanes, su
    ?ight, but which even if not moved at all perposed the one above the other, of upright
35 from its    original position becomes an effi
    cient lifting-surface whenever the speed of standards  connecting said planes at their 103
                                                 margins .the connections between the stand
    the machine is accidentally reduced very ards an aeroplanes at the lateral portions of
   much below the normal, and thus largely the ‘a roplanes being bylmeans of ?exible
   counteracts that backward travel of the cen   joints, each of said aeroplanes having lateral
.40 ter of pressure on the aeroplanes which has ‘marginal   portions capa le of movement to 105
   frequently been- productive of serious injuries, different ositions above or below the normal
   by causing thefmachine to‘ turn downward plane of the body of the aeroplane, such move
   and forward: and strike the " ound head-on’. ment be‘ about an axis transverse to_the
   We are ‘aware that a forwar horizontal rud line of ?ig t, ‘whereby said ,lateral marginal
   der of different construction has been usal‘in portions may be moved to di?'erent angles
   combination with‘a suppJQrting-surface and a relatively‘ to the‘ normal plane of the body of ‘
   rear horizontal rudder; utthis combination          the aero lane, sons to resent to the atmos
   was not int’ended to effect and does not ‘effect phere di erent angles 0 incidence, the stand-
  -'the object which we obtain’ by the arrange‘ ards maintaining. a ?xed vdistance between
.50 ment hereinbeforedesc'ribed.                .the portions of the aeroplanes which theycon
      We have used the term “aeroplane” inthis' nect, and means for imparting such move ms
                                  .    '

   s eci?cation and the appended claims in ment to the lateral m ' a] portions of‘ the
   dicate the supportin‘ -surface or supporting aeroplanes, substantial] as described; ;
   surfaces by means 9 which the machine is             . 3. In a ?ying’machme, a normally ‘?at.
55 sustained in the air, and by this term wewish       aero lane having lateral marginal portions 12)
   to be understood as including an suitable capable of movement to different posltwns
   supporting-surface which norma y is sub above or below the normal plane of_the body
   stantially ?at,"although of course when con .of the aeroplane, such movement boingabout
   structed of cloth or other ?exible fabric, as ‘an axis transverse to the line of flight, wherev
   we prefer to construct them, these surfaces by said lateral marginal portions may be :25
   inav receive more or less curvature from the 'moved to different        lesrelatively to the
   resistance of the air, as indicated 1n       _      normal plane of the body of the aeroplane,
     We do not wish to be understood as limit ' and alsoto different angles relatively to each
   ing ‘ourselves strictly to the precise details of other, so as to resent to the atmosphere dif
.65 construction hereinbefore described and fer'ent angles 0 incidence, and means for s1;


--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 9 OF 10 ---

       6                                          ‘821,893
       multaneously imparting such movement to different        angular relations to the normal _65
       said lateral marginal portions, substantially plane- of the body ‘of' the aeroplane and to, -
. ,_   asdescribed.
                                                   each other, so as to present to the'atmosphere
          4. In a ?ying-machine, the combination,  different  angles of incidence, of a vertical
   5 with parallel» superposed aeroplanes, each rudder, and ,ineans' whereb said rudder "is
       having lateral marginal portions capable of caused to present to thewin ‘that side there-- 70
       movement to different ositions above or be of nearest the side of the aeroplane haying.- .
   . ‘ ‘low the normal plane 0 the bed of the aero ‘the smaller angle of incidence and offering. the _
       plane, such movement being a out an ax_1s 'least- resistance to the atmosphere, substan- .
.10 transverse to the line of flight, whereby said vtially as described.          -
    lateral marginal ortions may bemoved to‘          8'.,I_n a ?ying-machine, the combination 7 5
    different angles re ativel to the normal lane‘ with two superposed and normally parallel
    of the body of the aerop ane, and to di erent aeroplanes, u right standards connecting the
    angles relatively to each other, so as to re edges of sai Taeroplanes to maintain their
 15 sent to the atmos here different angles 0 1n equidistance, those standards at the lateral- '
    cidence, of uprig ts connecting said-aero portions otsaid acro lanes being connected 8o
    planes at their edges, the uprights connecting therewith -.b ?exible Joints and 'means for si~'
       the lateral'portions of the aeroplanes being multaneous y moving both lateral portions.
    connected withsaid aero lanes‘ by ?exible of both aeroplanes into different. angular re-_
 20 joints, and means for sim taneously impart-n, 'lations to'the normal planes of the-‘bodies of I
       mg such movement to said lateral ~mar§gpal the respective aeroplanes, the lateral por- 85 ~
                                                                      a‘ machine bei moved _
       portions, the standards maintainin av          ed . tions on one side of t
       distance between the parts, which t , ey con        to‘ an angle‘different rrom that to W 'eb the
        nect, whereby the lateral portions on the lateral portions on’ the other side ot‘ the ma
 25. same side of the machine are moved to the         chine are moved, S0‘_ as, to present different,
       sameangle substantially as described..- , .     angles of incidence at the'two sides of the ‘ma
           5'._ In a   (Ir-machine, an aeroplane hav-. chme, ofa vertical rudder, and means where
        ing substantial y the form of ‘a1 normally ?at by said rudder is caused to present- to the r
       rectangle ‘elongated transversely to the line ‘wind that side thereof nearest the side of the V V
       offlight, in'combination-witb means for im-t aeroplanes having'the ‘smaller angleof inci
       parting to the lateral margins of said aero~ dence and offering the least resistance‘ to‘ the 95
       plane-a movement about 'an'axis'lving-in the ‘atmosphere, substantially as.\described.        '
        ody of the aeroplane perpendicular to said‘ ‘ 9. In a ?ying-machine, an aeroplane nor
       lateral margins, and- thereby‘moving said lat-3 mally ‘flat and elongated transversely to the
 35 oral margins int-o different- an ularurelations       line of flight,- in combinationl with means‘ for
       -to the-normal plane of the b( y of the aero4 imparting to said aeroplane alhelicoidal warp loo
        plane, substantially as described.-    ' -   around an axis transverseto the line of flight
         _6; In a flying-‘machine the combination, and extending centrally along‘ the body of the > ‘ '
       with two super osod'and'norlnally arallel aeroplane inthe directio of-"the elongation‘
        aeroplanes, ear-1‘ having substantialy the; of the aeroplane, substantially as described
        form of a normally ?at rectangle elongated         10. In a flying-machine, two aeroplanes,
        transversely‘ to tho line of ‘flight, of upright each normal y flat and elongated trans
        standards gunner-ring the edges ot'said acro ,versely to the line of-‘flight, and upright
        planes to maintain their equidistancc, those standards connecting the edges of said- aero
 45 standards at the lateral portions'ol‘ said aor‘o~     planes to maintain their‘ equidistance, the
        planes. being connected therewith by ?exible connections between said standards and ‘aero
     punts, and means for simultaneously impart planes bemg by~ means of ‘?exible joints, in
     mg to both lateral margins of both aeroplanes ‘ combination with means for simultaneousl
   ' a moymuenl about axes which are perpen(lic_-~ imparting to each of said aeroplanes a hell
                                                                    ,                   .   \

  50 ular to. and margins and m the plancsof. the. coidalrwar around an axis transverse to‘the
     bodies of‘ the ~respective aeroplanes, and line of-?ig t and extending centrally along n5 ’
        thereby moving the‘ lateral margins on, the' the body of the aeroplane in'the direction of
       opposite sides of the machine into different the elon vatlon of the aeroplane, substantially
        angular relations-to the normal planes of' the as descri )ed.     _‘   ,                        '   -
  55 respective aeroplanas,'tl1e margins on the             11. In a ?ying-machine, two aeroplanes,_
        same side of the machine moving to the same       each normal y _?at and elongated trans- 'rzo
       angle, and the nmrgins on one side of the ma 'versely to the line-‘of ?ight, and upright .
       ,rhmo moving to an angle different from the standards eonpecting the edges of said ‘aero
        angle to whichthemargins ‘on the other side ‘planes to maintain their eq‘uidistance, the
 60 of the machine‘ mo\'e,:snbstantiallv as (le           connections between such-standards and
       scribed.   -   -   '                 '     '
                                                          aeroplanes being         means of ?éXi-bler           1 25
         _T; _In a tlying-nnuzhinc, ‘the‘combination, in combination with means- tor {simultane
       with an aeroplane, and mos-ins for simultane-5 ousiy iiu arting to each-of; said aeroplanes a '
       nnsly, moving' the lateral-portions! hereof into‘ bah-mid“ :wal'Paronnd: axis transverse to


--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 10 OF 10 ---

                                                  821,393
    the line I of ?ight and extending centrally
    along the body of the aeroplane in the direc the front of the machine, substantially as de
                                                               scribed.        -                 p       ‘               '
    tion of the elongation of the aeroplane, a ver
    tical rudder, and means whereby said rudder    16. In a ?ying-machine, the combination,
    is caused to present to the wind that side with two ‘superposed and connected aero- ,
    thereof nearest the side of the aeroplanes planes, of an arm extending rearward from 55
    having the smaller angle of-incidence and of— ,each aeroplane, ‘said arms being parallel and
    fering the least resistance to the atmosphere, free   to swing upward at their rear ends, and a‘ '
                                                     vertical rudder pivotally mounted in the rear
    substantiall    as described.              '
                                                    ends of said arms, substantially as described.
 IO
      . 12. In a flying-‘machine, the combination, _             17. _A ?ying—mach.ine comprising two su 60
    with an aeroplane, of a normally flat and sub- '
    stantially horizontal ?exible rudder, and perposed aeroplanes, normally flat but ?exi
                                                le, u right standards connecting the mar
    means; for curving ‘said r'udderrearwardly guns 0 said aeroplanes, said standards being
    and upwardly or rearwardly and down                    connected to said aero anes by universal
 25 wardly with respect to its normal plane, sub
    stantially as described.   ~     -
                                                           joints,~diagonal stay-wires connecting the 65
      13. In a ?ying-machine, the combination, '. rope
                                                  opposite endsof the adjacent standards, a
   ‘with an aeroplane, of a normally ?at and sub lowerextending   ‘along the front edge of the
                                                        aeroplane, assing through guides at
   stantiall horizontal ?exible/rudder ivotally the front corners t ereof,‘ and having its ends
    mounte on an axis transvers'eto t e line of
   ~iiight near. its center, springs resisting verti-' .secured to the rear corners of the upper aero- '
                                                        plane, and _a rope extending along the rear
    cal movement of the frontc go of said rudder       edge of the lower aeroplane, .passing through
    and means for moving the 'rear_‘edge of sai
   rudder above. or be owv the normal plane ' guides at the rear corners thereof, ‘and having
                                              its ends secured to the front corners of the
25 thereof, substantiallyas' described. '     upper aeroplane, substantially as described.
     14. A ?ying-machine comprisin super             18. A ?ying-machine comprising two su
   posed connected aeroplanes, means or mov        perposed aeroplanes, normal y ‘?at but ?exi
   mg the opposite lateral portio\nos of said aero le, upright'standards  connecting the mar
   planes to different angles t the ‘normal gins 0 said aeroplanes, said standards bein
   planes thereof, a vertical rudder, means for connected to said aeroplanes by universal 80
   moving said vertical rudder toward-that side joints, , diagonal» stay-wires connecting the
   of the machine'presenting   the smaller angle
   of incidence an the least resistance to the
                                                 opposite  ends of. the adjacent standards, a
                                                       rope extending along the front edge of the
    atmosphere, and a horizontal rudder pro lower aeroplane, . assing through guides at
3.5 vided with means ‘for, presenting its upper or the front corners t ereof,-and having its ends
    under surface to the resistance of the atmos secured to the rear corners of the upper aero
    phere, substantially as described.             plane, and a rope extending along the rear
      15. A ?ying-machine comprising super; edge of the lower aeroplane, passing through
   posed connected aeroplanes, means for movguldes at the rear corners thereof, and having
   mg the opposite lateral portions of said aero       its endssecured to the front corners of the
   planes to different angles to the normal            up er aeroplane, in combination with a verti
   planes thereof, a vertical rudder, means for        calprudder, and'a tiller-rope connecting said
  _moving said vertical rudder toward‘ that side   rudder with the rope extending along the?
   of the machinepresenting the smaller angle rear edge of the lower aeroplane, substan
   of incidence and the least resistance to the at tially as described.   .
   mosphere, and a_horizontal rudder provided                           ORVILLE WRIGHT. >
 I with means for presenting its upper or under            ,      _   ‘                      WILBUR WRIGHT.
   surface to the resistance ofthe atmosphere,         '       Witnesses:          --   --   ‘       '           '   a

   said vertical rudder bein located at the rear                      . CHAS. E. TAYLOR,                     V
50 of themachine and said ‘ orizontal rudder at                           E. EARLE FORRER.
