--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 1 OF 4 ---

 No. 808,897.                                     PATENTED JAN. 2, 1906.
                         W. H. CARRIER.
                APPARATUS FOR TREATING AIR.
                  APPLIOATIOK FILED SEPT. 16, 1904.   _




                1*                         11.11
                                zééiééé éé éééiéééi -
                                          a my. a.




                                                          Ill/1




witnesses.
64a “MM,
                                                                  Attarneys


--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 2 OF 4 ---

          UNITED STATES PATENT oEEIoE.
   WILLIS H. CARRIER, OF BUFFALO, NEW YORK, ASSIGNOR TO BUFFALO
               FORGE COMPANY, OF BUFFALO, NEW YORK.
                             APPARATUS FOR TREATING AIR.

                                     Speci?cation of Letters Patent.                    Patented Jan. 2, 1906.
    No. 808,897.
                             Application ?led September 16, 1904. Serial No. 224,758.

   To all whom it may concern:
                                                          ized spray of the liquid and cause an intimate
     Be it known that I, WILLIS H. CARRIER, a contact   and mixture thereof with all portions
                                                   the air-current. The spray device shown 55
  citizen of the United States, residing at Buf of
  falo, in the county of Erie and State of New consists  of a vertical head or pipe connected
                                                with a supply-pipe F and provided with spray
  York, have invented a new and useful Im      nozzles 71 of a well-known type, (shown in
   provement in Apparatus for Treating Air, of Figs. 5 and 6,) which impart a whirling or
   which the following is a speci?cation.
     This invention relates to apparatus for treat circular motion to the issuing liquid and pro
   ing air previous to its use for ventilating and duce  a very ?ne spray or vapor.
                                                     In the casing in rear of the spray device is
   heating  buildings   or for  other  commercial
   purposes-such as drying, refrigerating, aforseparator        through which the air is passed
IO

   &c.——and more particularly to air-purifying solid particles ofor
                                                        eliminating    separating therefrom the
                                                                    foreign matter or impurities, 65
   apparatus of that kind in which a liquid or together with all or a portion        of the water
   solution in a ?nely-divided condition or atom which was introduced into the air for cleans
15 ized spray is introduced into a current of air ing it. The separator comprises a series of
   to be treated, which is then caused to pass parallel baf?e plates or elements. made of sheet
   through a separator consisting of ba?ie-plates metal or other suitable material, separated by
   which intercept and separate from the air the intervening   passages for the air and arranged
   particles of liquid, together with the solid im in an upright  position, which will be under
   purities contained therein.             '        stood to mean either vertically or inclined, so
     The object of the invention is to provide an that   the liquid or moisture removed from the
   efficient practical apparatus of simple con air can      ?ow down the surface of theplates or 75
   struction which will thoroughly separate all elements.
   solid impurities, ?oating particles, and nox vided with The        separator elements are pro
                                                                 oblique  faces joined by‘ upright
25 ious material from the air either with or with bends or angles, so as to form a series of con
   out altering its temperature and humidity.
      In the accompanying drawings, Figure 1 is tinuous,
                                                    the
                                                              sinuous, or zigzag passages between
                                                        elements  for the air, which in its passage
   a view, partly in elevation and partly in ver is de?ected from       side to side and caused to
   tical section, of an apparatus for treating air impinge against the    alternate faces of the op
   embodying the invention. Fig. 2 is a frag posite separator plates           or elements. Each
    mentary horizontal section, on an enlarged plate or element comprises aforward portion
   scale, of the separating device. Fig. 3 is a consisting of oblique faces i, joined by a sim 85
    diagram of the separating device. Fig. 4 is ple upright 'bend or angle j, and a rear por
    a perspective view of one of the separator tion consisting of oblique faces f g, joined by
35 plates or elements. Figs. 5 and 6 are en upright bends or angles, which are provided
    larged sections indifferent planes of one of with ?anges or portions Z) 0, which project
    the spray-nozzles detached.                      outwardly and rearwardly from the plates or 9O
      Like letters of reference refer to like parts in a direction opposed to the direction of
    in the several ?gures.                                  movement of the air and form recesses or
      M represents an air trunk, conduit, or cas
    ing, of galvanized iron or other suitable ma gutters.                 '
                                                       The separator plates or elements are pref
    terial, through which a current of air is caused erably constructed as shown in the drawings, 95
    to pass in a horizontal direction by a fan or
    other propelling device K, connected with the from
                                                     tion
                                                           which it will be seen that the front por
                                                          of each plate consists of a single section
 45 casing. In the casing M, preferably near its or piece which is bent-at the angle j, while
    open intake or front‘end, is located a spray the other portion consists of separate sections
    ing device H for introducing water or any or pieces riveted or otherwise joined with the IOC
    other suitable treating liquid or solution into front edge of each section projecting beyond
    the air passing through the casing. The the joint to form the ?anges b and 0.
 50 spraying   device may be of any suitable con        An obvious modi?cation of the construction
     struction which will ?ll the adjacent portion would     be to make each plate or element of a
     of the casing with a ?nely divided or atom


--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 3 OF 4 ---

    2                                           808,897

    single continuous piece and secure separate part of the invention and may be of any known
    narrow strips thereon at the angles to form construction and their temperature regulated 65
    the ?anges b and o. The upright rear edge of in any suitable manner. They are omitted
    the last section f of each plate or element is when it is not desired to alter the temperature
    also formed with or has secured thereto a lip     of the air.
    or ?ange which forms a gutter or recess a.          By the described construction of the sepa
    The two portions of theseparator-plates per       rator the air is brought into intimate contact
    form distinct functions. The front portion with a large wetted surface, whereby all of
    does not completely separate the particles of the impurities are removed from the air and
 IO the liquid or solution from the air, but only     a perfect separation of the free particles of
    to a sufficient extent to cover the faces 2' with liquid from the air is secured, while at the
     thin ?lms or streams of the liquid.   The air ’ same time a minimum amount of resistance 75
     is brought into intimate contact with these is offered to the ?ow of the air. On account
     ?lms of liquid by reason of the sinuous pas of the continuous sinuous passages for the
  15 sage-ways, and all the solid particles of ma air the latter cannot flow in any but the in
     terial or impurities contained in the air are tended paths, and thereby defeat to a greater
     thrown against the ?lms of liquid by reason or less extent the desired separation of the
     of their inertia and by the action of centrifu~ impurities and moisture- The construction
     gal force produced by the sinuous course of of the separator is exceedingly simple and
     the air. The liquid intercepts theirnpurities inexpensive.
     and the same are washed down the separator         I claim as my invention—
     plates or elements by the downwardly-?owing        1. In an air-purifying apparatus, the com 85
     ?lms of liquid and collect in a suitable basin   bination of an air-conduit and a separator
     or trap J in the bottom of the casing, from      therein comprising upright plates, each hav
 25 which the liquid passes out througha suitable     ing a succession of oblique faces forming a
     ?lter or sieve L. While the liquid is ?owing continuous sinuous surface lengthwise of the
    downwardly on the front portions of the sepa conduit and having the front portion of such
    rator-plates, due to the action of gravity, it is surfaceunobstructed to permit the distribu
     also propelled forwardly by the current of air tion of the liquid along the plate from one
    across the unobstructed bends j of the front face to another, and having its succeeding
     portions of the plates. The entire surface of portion provided with projections which ob
     the front faces '5 of the plates is kept wet and struct the ?ow of the liquid lengthwise of 95
     offers a large area to catch the impurities from the conduit and promote the separation of
     the air; but the front portion of the separator the liquid from the air, the plates being spaced
 35 plates is not designed to completely remove from each other to form continuous sinuous
     the particles of liquid from the air. The pro air-passages between them, substantially as
    jecting ?anges or lips b c of the rear portion set forth.                                         I00

    of the plates, however, obstruct the ?ow of         2. In an air-purifying apparatus, the com~
    the liquid across the angles from one face to     bination of means for moistening the air, an
    the other of the rear portion of the plates, so   air-conduit, and a separator therein compris
    that all of the free particles of liquid or any   ing spaced upright plates having upright
    desired proportion thereof can be separated       bends providing each plate with a succession 105
    from the air, depending on the number of the      of oblique faces and forming continuous sinu
    faces f g and ?anges I) c with which the rear     ous air-passages between the plates, the sur
 45 portion of the plates are provided. The num       face of the front portions of said plates being
                                                 smooth and unobstructed, and the succeeding
    ber of faces of the front portion and faces and
    ?anges of the rear portion of the separator  portions of said plates having surface pro
     plates will depend on the desired degree of jections which obstruct the ?ow of the liquid
     puri?cation and elimination of moisture from lengthwise of the conduit, substantially as
 50 the air.                                         set forth.
        The separator-plates can be supported in       3. In an air-purifying apparatus, the com
     the casing on transverse horizontal bars 0 and bination of means for moistening the air, an 115
     secured to said bars and the top of the casing air-conduit, and a separator in said conduit
     by projecting ears or parts d at the lower and comprising spaced upright plates having up
     upper ends of the platesor they can be mount right bends whereby the plates form continu
     ed and secured in any other desired manner. ous sinuous air-passages between them, a por
       B represents pipe-coils located in a suitable tion of the bends of each plate being provided I20
     portion of the casing in the path of the air and with projecting ?anges forming upright gut
     through which a heating or cooling medium ters, substantially as set forth.
r 60 is circulated for raising or lowering the tem     4. In an air-purifying apparatus, the com
     perature of the air as desired or necessary for bination of means for moistening the air, an
     the purpose for which the air is to be used. air-conduit, and a separator in said conduit [25
     These heating or cooling coils constitute no composed of spaced upright plates having


--- SOURCE PDF PAGE 4 OF 4 ---

                                            809,897     '   '                         8


 continuous zigzig surfaces and having pro- gutter at the junction of the sections, sub
  jections forming gutters at salient portions stantially as set forth.                  10
  of said surfaces, substantially as set forth.  Witness my hand this 14th day of Septem
    5. A separator-plate for air-puri?ers hav- ber, 1904.
5 ing separate sections arranged at an angle to                   WILLIS H. CARRIER.
  each other, with the front portion of the rear Witnesses:                           .
  section projecting beyond the rear portion of       CHAS. W. PARKER,
  the adjacent front section, thereby forming a       G. B. HORNBEGK.
